[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 93-95

[PAGE 93]
Report of the Board of Directors
As India’s regulatory and consumer landscape increasingly – During the year, farmer-driven milk procurement
demands traceability and sustainability, ITCMAARS is network in Bihar, West Bengal, and Jharkhand
laying the foundation for ‘Trust Systems at Scale’, enabling was strengthened to meet the growing demands
the farming community to meet evolving standards of your Company’s Fresh Dairy portfolio under the
such as the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) and ‘Aashirvaad Svasti’ brand and the ‘Sunfeast’
sustainably produced certification requirements. With a Dairy Beverages in Punjab. The Business expanded
vision to empower millions of farmers and unlock new the use of digital tools, including automated collection
value pools across the agri-inputs, outputs, and services systems, GPS-enabled logistics, and direct farmer
domains, your Company remains deeply committed to payments, to bring greater transparency across the
leveraging ITCMAARS to deliver enhanced productivity, value chain. Tailored dairy extension services covering
improved market access, and resilient incomes for India’s animal nutrition, health, and productivity enhancement
farming communities. were scaled up, improving yields and reinforcing
farmer loyalty. These efforts have enhanced farmer
Over the years, your Company has invested significantly
profitability while ensuring sustained delivery of
in building competitively superior agri-commodity
superior-quality milk aligned with brand requirements.
sourcing expertise comprising multiple business models,
The capability to source superior attribute-specific
wide geographical spread and customised infrastructure.
milk has enabled your Company to expand its
Your company is rapidly building expertise in data-science
Fresh Dairy portfolio with several innovative offerings.
led decision support systems to deepen its sourcing
capability. AI/ML models dynamically respond to evolving – The Business continues to scale-up sourcing
conditions across multiple sourcing dimensions and of spices to meet the growing requirements of
support the sourcing experts in making optimal decisions Sunrise and Aashirvaad brands.
around temporal and spatial vectors. These capabilities – Going forward, the organic sourcing capabilities, farm
and infrastructure have created structural advantages by linkages and traceability would also become a source
facilitating competitive sourcing of agri raw materials for of competitive advantage for the organic portfolio of
your Company’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses. your Company’s FMCG Businesses.
– The Business continued to play a pivotal role in The Business strengthened its collaborations with
securing benchmark-quality wheat to support the leading research institutions across India to build
growing requirements of the ‘Aashirvaad’ atta portfolio. cost-effective, high-yielding, and resilient Agri-value
Leveraging a wide sourcing network, robust crop chains. By mapping climate hotspots and focusing on
development initiatives, and digital tools, the Business regenerative agriculture, your Company introduced
ensured timely and cost-efficient procurement of location-specific seed varieties and tailored agricultural
critical grades of wheat. During the year, procurement practices in key states. This approach is aimed at
was scaled through direct farm linkages and FPOs, enhancing crop intelligence, reducing GHG emissions,
with a significant share of wheat sourced via digitally and improving soil health. Additionally, efforts to increase
enabled platforms. Crop development efforts were farm income were supported through the development
intensified to improve climate resilience, enhance of customised Agri-inputs, laying the foundation for
yields, and secure premium varieties to provide sustainable, future-ready food products. Your Company
consumers with best-in-class product quality and continued developing the millets value chain, promoting
experience. climate-resilient, nutrient-dense crops through public-private
The Agri Business strengthened its collaborations with leading research institutions
across India to build cost-effective, high-yielding, and resilient Agri-value chains.
By mapping climate hotspots and focusing on regenerative agriculture,
your Company introduced location-specific seed varieties and
tailored agricultural practices in key states.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 75

[PAGE 94]
Report of the Board of Directors
partnerships in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh with https://www.itcportal.com/material-subsidiary-policy.
Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR). Presently, your Company does not have any material
subsidiary.
Driving the transformation towards NextGen Agriculture,
your Company has significantly accelerated digital
Surya Nepal Private Limited
adoption across the Agri landscape, empowering farmers
Nepal’s GDP grew by 3.7% during the fiscal year ended
with advanced, tech-enabled solutions. At the forefront is
July 2024, on a low base of 2% in the previous year, led
your Company’s ‘phygital’ innovation ITCMAARS which
mainly by uptick in agriculture, hydro power and tourism
delivers hyperlocal, personalised recommendations at
sectors. However, growth in the Nepalese economy
scale through predictive advisory models powered by
continues to be challenging amidst subdued economic
IoT and data analytics. This integrated ecosystem has the
activities resulting from weak consumer demand and
potential to unlock several evolving opportunities that can
sluggish private and public sector investments.
help reimagine the future of the agri sector and propel the
The economy saw a modest recovery this fiscal year with
Business to create new and scalable revenue streams,
an accommodative monetary policy and consumer price
whilst also benefitting farmers.
inflation moderating to 4.6% for the first 9 months of the
To further enhance rural livelihoods, your Company’s fiscal year as compared to 5.9% in the previous year.
focus on Value-Added Agri Products (VAAP) and crop Inward remittances, which significantly contribute to
diversification is catalysing a shift from conventional economic growth, stand at appx. 25% of the national GDP,
production-centric models to demand-driven, value-rich grew by 10.0% in the first 9 months, albeit at a slower
agri-value chains. Strategic investments in state-of-the-art pace than the previous year. Strong inward remittances,
export infrastructure are linking Indian farmers to global low interest rates and moderate inflation are expected
markets, driving growth and inclusivity. to lead to gradual recovery in private consumption and
consumer demand.
Through a wide spectrum of initiatives including
The Government of Nepal has recently introduced several
climate-resilient farming, natural resource management,
reforms to enhance investments, strengthen governance,
competitive value chain development, cutting-edge
public service delivery, ease of doing business etc.,
digital interventions and robust market linkages,
which are steps in the right direction. Further measures
your Company is enabling Indian agriculture to scale new
aimed at encouraging domestic and foreign investments,
horizons while advancing national priorities and delivering
incentivising the manufacturing sector to enable import
sustainable impact.
substitution and job creation, supporting the hospitality
sector with its large economic multiplier effect, on-ground
NOTES ON SUBSIDIARIES
implementation of reforms and promulgation of
The following may be read in conjunction with the industry-friendly policies remain key imperatives for
Consolidated Financial Statements of your Company achieving sustained economic growth.
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standard 110.
The legal cigarette industry provides livelihoods to over
Shareholders desirous of obtaining the Report and
five lakh individuals involved in tobacco cultivation,
Accounts of your Company’s subsidiaries may obtain the
manufacturing & trade and makes a significant contribution
same upon request. Further, the Report and Accounts
to the revenue collection of the Government of Nepal.
of the subsidiary companies is also available under the
Despite its far-reaching economic impact, the legal
‘Investor Relations’ section of your Company’s website,
cigarette industry continues to face significant challenges
www.itcportal.com, in a downloadable format. Your from an increasingly punitive and discriminatory taxation
Company’s Policy for determination of a material subsidiary, and regulatory regime. The company continues to
as adopted by your Board, in conformity with Regulation 16 engage with policy makers for equitable, pragmatic,
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing evidence-based regulations and taxation policies that
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, balance the economic imperatives of the country and
can be accessed on your Company’s corporate website at tobacco control objectives.
76 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 95]
Report of the Board of Directors
The company demonstrated resilient performance CSR policy, the company carried out initiatives under
during the year despite subdued consumer demand. four distinct CSR Platforms, namely, Surya Nepal Asha,
The Cigarettes business reinforced its market standing by Surya Nepal Prakriti, Surya Nepal Adharshila and
leveraging its robust portfolio, superior product quality and Surya Nepal Gatha during the year. Key interventions
wide distribution network. A differentiated and innovative include:
offering under ‘Surya Fusion’ brand was launched
providing assistance to farmers in areas proximal to
during the year, which further fortified the company’s –
the company’s operations,
product portfolio.
creation of agri-infrastructure such as vermicompost
The company’s manufacturing systems continued to –
set new benchmarks in responsiveness, quality and pits, harvesting sheds etc.,
productivity. Various initiatives, such as the manufacture
providing training to improve productivity and
–
of new product formats, and process automation were
enhance income generation for farmers through
implemented during the year. Relentless focus on
animal husbandry,
developing world-class products anchored on innovation
and benchmarked to international quality standards – improvement in the quality of education in public
remain the key sources of sustainable competitive schools in the vicinity of the company’s operating
advantage for the company. locations,
During the year, the company leveraged its distribution development of public infrastructure in the catchment
–
reach to scale up availability of ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy areas of operating locations,
Choco Fills’ biscuits, which had been launched in the
assistance in various environment preservation
previous year. Focused investments towards brand –
measures like urban plantation and preservation of
building supplemented the distribution scale up and
biodiversity,
enabled the brand to achieve premium positioning in the
market. ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy Mocha Fills’, launched support in organising the largest Nepali literature
–
during the year, also elicited positive consumer response. festival and assistance in promotion and revival of
the local Nepali folk musical instrument – ‘Sarangi’
In the Confectionery business, the company augmented
its product range through new launches such as through various training programs and workshops.
‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy Choco Rolls’, ‘Toffichoo Coffee Delite’
During the year, the company recorded Revenue
and ‘Minto Honey Lemon Ginger’. Focused investments
from Operations of NRs. 5293 crores (previous year
continue to be made towards enhancing market
NRs. 4979 crores) and Net Profit of NRs. 1172 crores
standing. Capacity utilisation at the company’s
(previous year NRs. 1118 crores) on a consolidated basis.
state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Biratnagar is also
being progressively ramped up. The company declared a dividend of NRs. 273 per equity
share of NRs. 50 9 each for the year ended 15th July, 2024
The company’s wholly owned subsidiary,
(31st Asadh, 2081), amounting to NRs. 1101 crores
Surya Nepal Ventures Private Limited, engaged in
(previous year NRs. 563 per equity share of NRs. 100 each
manufacturing and sales of agarbattis, continued to
amounting to NRs. 1135 crores).
strengthen its market standing leveraging its differentiated
product portfolio, sharply focused marketing investments The company continues to be one of the largest contributors
and best-in-class product availability across target to the exchequer in Nepal and is well-positioned
markets. The company entered the dhoop segment under
to consolidate its leadership position by leveraging its
the ‘Mangaldeep’ brand during the year. The product
robust portfolio of products, deep & wide distribution
range has received encouraging consumer response.
network, best-in-class manufacturing facilities and
The company continues to make multi-dimensional
9 One Ordinary equity share of the company having face value of NRs 100/- was
contributions towards building the societal and economic
sub-divided to 2 Ordinary equity shares having face value of NRs. 50/- each
capital of Nepal. In line with applicable regulations and during the year.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 77