[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 374-376

[PAGE 374]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers.
Employees are encouraged to report work area related safety issues through various programmes.
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Filed During Pending Remarks Filed During Pending Remarks
The Year Resolution The Year Resolution
At The End Of At The End Of
Year Year
Working
0 0 - 12 1* -
Conditions
Health &
0 0 - 0 0 -
Safety
*Resolved after 31st March, 2024
14. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices 100%
Working Conditions 100%
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
Internal audits of ITC units at Divisional as well as corporate level are being conducted on a periodic basis. Corrective
and preventive measures are taken based on the findings. Detailed investigations are carried out for all accidents to
identify the root causes and to understand the measures required to prevent recurrence. Accident investigation findings
with corrective and preventive measures form part of the report presented to the Corporate Management Committee
(monthly) and the Board of Directors (generally at every meeting). The learnings from all accidents are disseminated
across the organisation at periodic intervals and a formal compliance obtained.
Leadership Indicators
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
Yes. In the unfortunate event of the death of an employee/worker, the Company extends financial support to family
members of the employee/worker.
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited
by the value chain partners.
The Company ensures that statutory dues as payable by service providers for their employees are deposited on time
and in full through periodic audits and controls.
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health
/ fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment.
Total No. Of Affected No. Of Employees/Workers That Are
Employees/Workers* Rehabilitated And Placed In Suitable
Employment Or Whose Family Members
Have Been Placed In Suitable Employment*
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Employees 0 0 0 0
Workers 2 0 2 0
*Onsite Accidents
XXVII

[PAGE 375]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
ITC continually invests in human capital development which includes building skills and capabilities that are contemporary
while providing employees with a diversity of experiences. These enhance the employability of the workforce and
enable a smooth transition to alternate opportunities where sought. The Company has in place a programme called
‘Making New Choices’ for retiring staff. In addition, the Company provides pension benefits and post-retiral medical
benefits for those members of staff who qualify. Workers are provided with pension benefits, as per requirements of
the relevant statute.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
ITC’s Policy on Sustainable Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing ensures integration of sustainability in its supply
chains. ITC’s suppliers /value-chain partners are expected to adopt the principles enumerated in ITC’s Code of Conduct
for Suppliers and Service Providers. ITC reserves the right to verify compliance with the Code of Conduct for Suppliers
and Service Providers at any time through appropriate audit and assessment mechanisms, including self-certification.
Health and safety audits conducted at ITC’s own manufacturing sites cover all contract workers within ITC’s operational
premises. Additionally, ITC conducts third-party desktop assessment of its Critical Tier - 1* suppliers which includes
key aspects on Occupational Health and Safety, amongst other assessment criteria.
*All ITC Businesses have identified Critical Tier-1 suppliers based on aspects like buy value, ESG risk exposure and importance
to business continuity, among others. ITC’s Sustainable Supply Chain Programme is focussed on working closely with the set
of identified critical suppliers.
% of value chain partners* (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices As of 31st March, 2025, ~70% of the Com-
pany’s Critical Tier-I suppliers have been
Working Conditions
assessed by a third party on ESG aspects
including health and safety practices and
working conditions.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
ITC’s Sectoral EHS Guidelines are shared by Businesses with their value chain partners, and periodic training is given
to their concerned personnel.
Periodic audits by ITC are conducted for some of its key value chain partners against the Sectoral EHS guidelines.
Corrective and preventive measures are recommended based on the audit findings.
Principle 4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
In line with the Board approved Policy on Stakeholder Engagement, ITC has evolved a structured framework for identifying
and engaging with its key stakeholders across the value chain. ITC’s engagement approach is anchored on the principles of
materiality, completeness and responsiveness.
The engagement approach takes into cognisance the fact that each stakeholder group is unique and has a distinctive
set of priorities. Insights gathered from stakeholder engagements, help validate the Company’s performance and shape
new perspectives.
Note: For details on ITC’s Process of Stakeholder Engagement, refer to ‘Stakeholder Engagement’ section of ITC Sustainability Report 2025.
XXVIII

[PAGE 376]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder Group Whether Channels Of Frequency Of Purpose And Scope
Identified As Communication (Email, Engagement Of Engagement
Vulnerable & SMS, Newspaper, (Annually/Half Including Key Topics
Marginalized Pamphlets, Advertisement, Yearly/Quarterly/ And Concerns
Group (Yes/No) Community Meetings, Others – Please Raised During Such
Notice Board, Website), Specify) Engagement
Other
Providers of financial No For more details on consultation mechanisms and key issues discussed
capital with the stakeholder groups, refer to ‘Strengthening Relationships with
All Stakeholders’ section of ITC Sustainability Report 2025.
Government and No
regulatory authorities
Customers No
Employees No
Farmers Yes
Value chain partners No
Media No
Civil Society No
Local communities Yes
Leadership Indicators Since 2016, the Company has made concerted efforts to
assess and improve engagement. The impact is visible
1. Provide the processes for consultation between in the consistent improvement of engagement over the
stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, years.
and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support
feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
the identification and management of environmental, and
ITC believes that an effective stakeholder engagement social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances
process is necessary for achieving its sustainability goal as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these
of inclusive growth. In this context, the Company has laid topics were incorporated into policies and activities of
down a four layered mechanism to deal with the aspect of the entity.
stakeholder engagement. Yes, the Company believes that an effective stakeholder
The Board, through the CSR and Sustainability Committee, engagement process is necessary for achieving its
inter alia, reviews, monitors and provides strategic sustainability goal of inclusive growth. Accordingly,
the Company anchors stakeholder engagement on the
direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability
following principles:
practices towards fulfilling its Triple Bottom Line
objectives. Half-yearly reports on the progress made a) Materiality – Prioritised consideration of the economic,
by the Company in this regard are placed by the CMC environmental and social impacts identified to be
before the CSR and Sustainability Committee. The CMC important to the stakeholders as well as the organisation.
in turn has constituted the Sustainability Compliance
b) Completeness – Understanding key concerns of
Review Committee (SCRC), comprising senior and other stakeholders and their expectations.
members of management, which evaluates and monitors
c) Responsiveness – Responding coherently and
compliance with the Policy formulated in this connection.
transparently to such issues and concerns. The
The SCRC places a quarterly report on the subject before
Company has put in place systems and procedures to
the CMC.
identify, prioritise and address the needs and concerns
The Company has a practice of periodically assessing of its stakeholders across Businesses and Units in a
employee engagement through a Company-wide survey. continuous, consistent and systematic manner. It has
XXIX