[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 167-169

[PAGE 167]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
recognises contribution payable to such trusts as an expense if recommended by the Corporate Management Committee
including any shortfall in interest between the amount of and approved by the Audit Committee, decide not to seek
interest realised by the investment and the interest payable such recovery from:
to members at the rate declared by the Government of (a) wholly owned subsidiaries who need to conserve
India. In respect of other employees, provident funds are financial capacity to sustain their business and growth
deposited with the Government administered funds and
plans and to address contingencies that may arise,
recognised as expense.
taking into account the economic and market conditions
The Company makes contribution to defined contribution then prevailing and opportunities and threats in the
pension plan. The contribution payable is recognised as an competitive context.
expense, when an employee renders the related service.
(b) other companies not covered under (a) above, who
The Company also makes contribution to defined benefit need to conserve financial capacity to sustain their
pension and gratuity plan. The cost of providing benefits business and growth plans and where the quantum of
under the defined benefit obligation is calculated by reimbursement is not material - the materiality threshold
independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. being ` 5 Crores for each entity for a financial year.
Service costs and net interest expense or income is
Stock Appreciation Linked Reward (SAR) Plan
reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss. Gain or Loss
on account of remeasurements are recognised immediately Cash Settled SAR units are granted to eligible employees
through other comprehensive income in the period in which under the ITC Employee Cash Settled Stock Appreciation
they occur. Linked Reward Plan (‘ITC ESARP’), as may be decided by
the CMC / Nomination & Compensation Committee / Board.
The employees of the Company are entitled to compensated
leave for which the Company records the liability based on For such Cash Settled SAR units, a liability is initially
actuarial valuation computed using projected unit credit measured at fair value on the grant date and is subsequently
method. These benefits are unfunded. remeasured at each reporting period, until settled. The
fair value of ITC ESARP units granted is recognised as
Actual disbursements made under the Workers’ Voluntary
employee benefits expense in the Statement of Profit and
Retirement Scheme are accounted as revenue expenses.
Loss over the period in which the performance and / or
Employee Share Based Compensation service conditions are fulfilled for employees of the
Company. In case of ITC ESARP units granted to
Stock Options
employees on deputation and to employees of the group
Equity settled Stock Options are granted to eligible
companies, the Company generally recovers the fair value
employees under the ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes
of ITC ESARP units from the concerned group companies.
(‘ITC ESOS’), as may be decided by the Nomination &
Compensation Committee / Board. Further, eligible Leases
employees of the Company have been granted equity The Company assesses at contract inception whether a
settled Stock Options under the ITC Hotels Special Purpose contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains,
Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘ITCHL SP ESOS’), a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified
in terms of the ‘Scheme of Arrangement between the asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Company and ITC Hotels Limited, and their respective
Company as a Lessee
shareholders and creditors’.
Right-of-use (ROU) assets are recognised at inception of a
Under Ind AS, the cost of equity settled Stock Options is
contract or arrangement for significant lease components
recognised based on the fair value of Stock Options as on
at cost less lease incentives, if any. ROU assets are
the grant date.
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated
The fair value of Stock Options granted to the employees of depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
the Company is recognised as employee benefits expense The cost of ROU assets includes the amount of lease
in the Statement of Profit and Loss over the period in which liabilities recognised, initial direct cost incurred and lease
the performance and / or service conditions are fulfilled with a payments made at or before the lease commencement date.
corresponding credit in equity for ITC ESOS and recognised ROU assets are generally depreciated over the shorter of
as a financial liability for ITCHL SP ESOS. The fair value of the lease term and estimated useful lives of the underlying
Stock Options, net of recoveries, granted to employees on assets on a straight-line basis. Lease term is determined
deputation and to employees of the group companies is based on consideration of facts and circumstances that
considered as capital contribution / investment. create an economic incentive to exercise an extension
The Company generally recovers the fair value of Stock option, or not to exercise a termination option. Lease
Options from such group companies, as applicable. It may, payments associated with short-term leases (i.e., those
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 149

[PAGE 168]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from the Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is
commencement date and do not contain a purchase option) legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and
and low value leases (i.e., where the value of the underlying liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the
asset, when new, in order of magnitude is ` 5 lakhs or same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities
less) are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss on a are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to
straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. offset and intends either to settle on net basis, or to realize
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the
present value of lease payments to be made on the date Claims
of recognition of the lease. Such lease liabilities do not
Claims against the Company not acknowledged as debts
include variable lease payments (that do not depend on are disclosed after a careful evaluation of the facts and
an index or a rate), which are recognised as expense in legal aspects of the matter involved.
the periods in which they are incurred. Interest on lease
Provisions
liability is recognised using the effective interest method.
Lease liabilities are subsequently increased to reflect the Provisions are recognised when, as a result of a past
accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments event, the Company has a legal or constructive obligation;
made. The carrying amount of lease liabilities is also it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required
remeasured upon modification of lease arrangement or to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably
upon change in the assessment of the lease term. The estimated. The amount so recognised is a best estimate
of the consideration required to settle the obligation at the
effect of such remeasurements is adjusted to the value of
reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties
the ROU assets.
surrounding the obligation.
Company as a Lessor
In an event when the time value of money is material, the
Leases in which the Company does not transfer substantially provision is carried at the present value of the cash flows
all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are estimated to settle the obligation.
classified as operating leases. Where the Company is a
Operating Segments
lessor under an operating lease, the asset is capitalised
within property, plant and equipment or investment property Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent
and depreciated over its useful economic life. Payments with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating
decision-maker (CODM). The CODM, who is responsible
received under operating leases are recognised in the
for allocating resources and assessing performance of the
Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over
operating segments, has been identified as the Corporate
the term of the lease.
Management Committee.
Taxes on Income
Segments are organised based on businesses which
Taxes on income comprise current taxes and deferred have similar economic characteristics as well as exhibit
taxes. Current tax in the Statement of Profit and Loss is similarities in nature of products and services offered,
provided as the amount of tax payable in respect of taxable the nature of production processes, the type and class of
income for the period using tax rates and tax laws enacted customer and distribution methods.
during the period, together with any adjustment to tax Segment revenue arising from third party customers is
payable in respect of previous years. reported on the same basis as revenue in the financial
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences statements. Inter-segment revenue is reported on the basis
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and of transactions which are primarily market led. Segment
the amounts used for taxation purposes (tax base), at the results represent profits before finance charges, unallocated
tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by corporate expenses and taxes.
the end of the reporting period. “Unallocated Corporate Expenses” include revenue and
Deferred tax assets are recognised for the future tax expenses that relate to initiatives / costs attributable to the
enterprise as a whole.
consequences to the extent it is probable that future
taxable profits will be available against which the deductible Financial and Management Information Systems
temporary differences can be utilised.
The Company’s Accounting System is designed to unify
Income tax, insofar as it relates to items disclosed under the Financial and Cost Records and also to comply with the
other comprehensive income or equity, is disclosed relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, to provide
separately under other comprehensive income or equity, financial and cost information appropriate to the businesses
as applicable. and facilitate Internal Control.
150 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 169]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
2. Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity period and the impact of changes in the estimated
with generally accepted accounting principles requires useful life is considered in the period in which the
management to make estimates and assumptions that estimate is revised.
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
2. F air value measurements and valuation
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial
processes:
statements and the results of operations during the
S ome of the Company’s assets and liabilities
reporting period end. Although these estimates are based
upon management’s best knowledge of current events and are measured at fair value for financial reporting
actions, actual results could differ from these estimates. purposes. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a
liability, the Company uses market-observable data
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on
to the extent it is available. Where Level 1 inputs
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
are not available, the Company engages third party
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised
valuers, where required, to perform the valuation.
if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of
Information about the valuation techniques and
the revision and future periods if the revision affects both
inputs used in determining the fair value of various
current and future periods.
assets, liabilities and share based payments are
A. Judgements in applying accounting policies disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
The judgements, apart from those involving estimations
3. Actuarial Valuation:
(see note B below), that the Company has made in the
T he determination of Company’s liability towards
process of applying its accounting policies and that have
defined benefit obligation to employees is made
a significant effect on the amounts recognised in these
through independent actuarial valuation including
financial statements pertain to useful life of intangible
determination of amounts to be recognised in
assets. The Company is required to determine whether
the Statement of Profit and Loss and in Other
its intangible assets have indefinite or finite life which is
Comprehensive Income. Such valuation depends
a subject matter of judgement. Certain trademarks have
upon assumptions determined after taking into
been considered of having an indefinite useful life taking
account inflation, seniority, promotion and other
into account that there are no technical, technological or
relevant factors such as supply and demand factors
commercial risks of obsolescence or limitations under
in the employment market. Information about such
contract or law. Other trademarks have been amortised
valuation is provided in the notes to the financial
over their useful economic life. Refer notes to the financial
statements.
statements.
4. C laims, Provisions and Contingent Liabilities:
B. Key sources of estimation uncertainty
T he Company has ongoing litigations with various
The following are the key assumptions concerning the
regulatory authorities and third parties. Where an
future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the
outflow of funds is believed to be probable and a
end of the reporting period that may have a significant risk
reliable estimate of the outcome of the dispute can
of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of
be made based on management’s assessment of
assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
specific circumstances of each dispute and relevant
1. U seful lives of property, plant and equipment, external advice, management provides for its best
investment property and intangible assets: estimate of the liability. Such accruals are by nature
A s described in the material accounting policies, complex and can take number of years to resolve
the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of and can involve estimation uncertainty. Information
property, plant and equipment, investment property about such litigations is provided in the notes to the
and intangible assets at the end of each reporting financial statements.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 151