[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 125-127

[PAGE 125]
Report of the Board of Directors
ultra-poor women has increased by more than five-fold. building capabilities of Anganwadi Sevikas on ECCE has
Aided by the programme, there is also a substantial also been one of the focus areas. Your Company has
improvement in Human Development Indicators. partnered with Women Development and Child Welfare
Currently, the programme is operational in 10 districts in Department in Andhra Pradesh to strengthen capacity of
eight states. over 55,600 Anganwadi Sevikas across all the 26 districts.
Through a cascade approach, the Sevikas have reached
As an amplification strategy, the financial literacy and
out to 4.16 lakh children during the year. Your Company
inclusion project, in partnership with Madhya Pradesh
is also having a similar partnership in Saharanpur,
State Rural Livelihood Mission (MPSRLM) and
Uttar Pradesh, for improving ECCE (Poshan Bhi,
CRISIL Foundation continued in its second phase of
Padhai Bhi) of children by combining nutrition and
partnership covering all 52 districts of Madhya Pradesh.
education interventions and has covered 50,000 children
Basis the learnings in MP, the programme continued
in the district.
to expand to other states also, now covering over
98,900 existing SHGs with 10 lakh members. Over 640 Government primary schools and Anganwadis
The Financial Literacy programme has cumulatively covered were provided infrastructure support comprising
over 3.9 lakh SHGs benefiting over 38.50 lakh women boundary walls, additional classrooms including
spread across 80 districts in 15 states. Over 31 lakh scheme operationalising smart classrooms, solarisation,
linkages for trained women have also been facilitated with sanitation units and furniture, taking the total number
access to bank accounts and Government social security of Government primary schools and Anganwadis
schemes till date with the support of self-sustaining cadre of covered till date to over 4,100. Infrastructure support to
Yojana Sakhis, who also earn by charging fees from women Government schools has helped in increasing enrolment,
for creating these linkages. particularly of girls, in schools. To ensure sustainable
operations and maintenance of infrastructure provided,
Your Company’s ‘Aashirvaad Raho 4 Kadam Aage’
more than 1,480 School Management Committees and
programme is encouraging women empowerment by
1,370 Child Cabinets & Water and Sanitation (WATSAN)
providing skills related to food processing sector as
Committees were operational in various schools
well as on other livelihood opportunities. Spread across
during the year with active involvement of students
four states, the programme has covered over
and teachers.
30,700 women beneficiaries.
To address the issue of drop out, especially of girls in
Education
secondary and senior secondary level, a pilot intervention
The Primary Education programme aligned with National continued in Pudukkottai, Munger and Kolkata covering
Education Policy 2020, aims to provide children from 2,500 girl students. Mentoring for career intentionality,
weaker sections of society access to education with building 21st century skilling and mainstreaming out of
focus on learning outcomes and retention. Operational school girls through National Open Schooling System
in 50 districts of 15 states, the programme covered are the major aspects of this intervention.
over 6.57 lakh children during the year, taking the
Your Company’s ‘Bounce of Joy’ programme is aimed to
cumulative coverage to over 21.80 lakh children. Further,
foster holistic development and create a positive impact on
125 Supplementary Learning Centres (SLCs) has
children’s lives through physical fitness including sports.
remained operational during the year, mainstreaming
Execution of the programme is done by collaborating with
more than 4,000 out-of-school children into the formal
schools for training of Physical Education (PE) teachers to
education system, taking the cumulative number to
help them foster holistic development amongst students
over 16,800.
through sports like football. Through the trained teachers,
Considering importance of Early Childhood Care and the programme has reached out to 43,450 students across
Education (ECCE) as per National Education Policy 2020, 140 schools in two states.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 107

[PAGE 126]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company’s ‘Sunfeast Bigger Fantasies’ programme boys, and also focused on driving behaviour change
has covered 55,970 children from 60 schools across two among over 1.13 lakh school students through
states encouraging and nurturing their innate curiosity 2,300 WASH campaigns.
and ability to think laterally. 1,500 Young instructors
Your Company’s ‘Savlon Swasth India Mission’
were trained, who in turn engaged with these children
programme has been a front runner in driving behavioural
to encourage creative thinking & expression, and peer
change in hand hygiene through innovative experiential
learning & collaboration. 60 creativity fairs were also
training in primary schools. The Mission rooted in the
conducted with active participation from students.
belief of ‘Swasth Bacche, Mazboot Desh’ drove a range of
Skilling & Vocational Training initiatives to aid and enable the country in its fight against
preventable infections that create huge economic burden
This programme, aligned to Pradhan Mantri Kaushal
on the country.
Vikas Yojana provides training in market linked skills to
youth from marginalised sections including differently The programme, focused on spreading awareness for
abled, to enable them to engage in decent livelihoods. habit building of hand hygiene through interactive sessions
15,600 youth across 34 districts in 16 states were trained across India, covered 16,770 schools and reached out to
under different courses during the year, of which nearly about 32 lakh children during the year.
52% were female. Cumulatively, around 1.27 lakh youth
have been trained under the skilling programme. To scale Waste Management
up the skilling programme, your Company has also initiated
Your Company’s initiatives focus on creating replicable,
pilots for potential pathways of skilling in the community
scalable and sustainable models of municipal and rural
itself (1,700 trained in the year) and leveraging other skill
waste management that can be implemented across the
training partners in the ecosystem (893 in the year).
country to ensure that minimal waste goes to landfills.
Further, the programme for skilling differently abled youth Details of these models are provided in the section
running in Karnataka and West Bengal last year, was on ’Building a Circular Economy for Post-Consumer
expanded to Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha by Packaging’ above.
establishing new centres and also leveraging the existing
centres of implementing partners. During the year, Health & Nutrition
850 youth (cumulatively over 1,000) were trained and over
Your Company is adopting a holistic approach towards
530 have already been placed. Further, your Company’s
Community Healthcare, focusing on two major components
Sixth Sense programme, focused on making an impact
- preventive health care and curative services. Community
on the lives of visually challenged, covered 150 such
healthcare is initiated to address the challenges of
individuals across five cities.
awareness, availability, accessibility and affordability. The
objective of the initiative is to improve health and nutrition
Sanitation
by strengthening institutional capacity, supplementing
Your Company continues to adopt a multi-pronged
existing infrastructure, promoting greater convergence
approach towards improving public health and hygiene
with existing Government schemes like National Health
across 30 districts and 13 states. The programme focuses
Mission, leveraging technology and increasing access to
on ensuring sustainability of Open Defecation Free (ODF)
basic primary and secondary healthcare services.
habitations and then making them ODF+ through improved
hygiene, sanitation and waste management practices A two-pronged approach aligned to Government’s
which is aligned with Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0. POSHAN Abhiyan was adopted under Maternal and Child
Health and Nutrition (MCHN) programme:
Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) programme
was implemented in schools that included construction Focusing on first ‘1,000 days of life’ in high malnutrition
of sanitation units in schools, separate for girls and catchments covering mothers and children, and
108 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 127]
Report of the Board of Directors
Addressing anaemia at scale among all age groups As part of the community healthcare programme
through screening under Anaemia Mukt Bharat ‘ITC Swaasth Kiran’ initiative was launched during
(AMB), Rashtriya Bal Suraksha Karyakaram (RBSK) FY 2021-22 in Saharanpur and Munger districts. Under
and thereafter, loop closure through awareness the initiative, during the year, thirteen Mobile Medical
creation and linkages with Government schemes. Units (MMU) were functional (seven in Saharanpur &
six in Munger). These MMUs have provided free medical
Capacity building of frontline resources like Anganwadi
consultation and medicines to the rural community at their
Sevikas and ASHA workers is an integral part of the
doorstep. During the year, nearly 2.22 lakh individual
intervention and 16,000 were trained during the year
engagements were done with community members
on engagement with community, making effective
across 796 villages, 58% of which were with women.
‘six home visits’ and localised nutrition promotion.
Further, 43,400 diagnostic tests were conducted and
Screening of over two lakh women and children for anaemia 1,130 referrals made during the year. With the
was done in partnership with Government for baselining involvement of the Rogi Kalyan Samitis, upgradation of
and identifying priority areas for interventions. A 4E 23 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) based on Indian Public
approach of identifying hotspots (Exploration); awareness Health Standard was also done, taking the cumulative to
on dietary diversity and hygiene (Education); promoting 37 in five states. This has helped in increased footfall of
nutrition gardens and consumption of locally grown patients, including higher number of institutional deliveries.
‘5 Food Groups’ through nutri-groups (Encouraging); and
Understanding the need for high-quality doorstep
building capabilities of ASHA and Anganwadi Sevikas on
eye care for the community, your Company also
identification and management of anaemia (Empower)
continued its innovative layered eyecare intervention
was adopted to address the issue.
in Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, as part of which
Around 15.24 lakh people spread across 21 districts four Mobile Vision Units (MVU) were operational in
in nine states were covered during the year, under services in rural Saharanpur. These MVUs equipped with
your Company’s MCHN initiative aimed at improving the high end ophthalmic equipment can screen and diagnose
health-nutrition status of women, adolescents and children. eye ailments such as Cataract, Diabetic Retinopathy,
This included the partnerships with the Directorate of Glaucoma and other diseases. During the year, more
Women and Child Development, Assam for eight districts than 1.76 lakh community members have been screened,
including seven aspirational districts, and another with of which 16,589 cases were referred to the MVUs,
the Child Development Services and Nutrition Department and thereafter 1,082 cataract surgeries done at
Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh. Dr. Shroff’s Charity Eye Hospital in Saharanpur, who are
the partner for this intervention.
Project Samposhan was undertaken during the year to
sensitise the community on nutritional value of fruits and Your Company continued to enhance awareness on
various health related issues like menstrual & personal
vegetables, leveraging their existing agriculture expertise to
hygiene, reproductive health and diarrhoea through a
cultivate sustainable and healthy food. 40 youth trained as
network of 366 women Village Health Champions (VHCs).
Poshan Sathis engaged with over 1,000 rural households
These VHCs engaged with the community for promoting
and trained them on farming system for nutrition and setting
behaviour change and selling relevant health products
up nutrition gardens. SHGs and farmer collectives were
to the community, thereby also earning a livelihood. The
also strengthened to create local ecosystem for nutrition
programme was operational in two districts of Madhya
products. Iodine deficiency is considered as one of the
Pradesh and six districts of Uttar Pradesh, covering nearly
most common causes of preventable mental impairment
1.45 lakh women during the year.
and constitutes a significant public health problem.
Under the ‘Aashirvaad Smart India’ intervention, over To make potable water available to local communities in
seven lakh people were reached out through awareness Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, Reverse Osmosis (RO)
on iodine deficiency disorders and healthy eating. water purification plants were set up in villages where
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 109