[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 83-85

[PAGE 83]
Report of the Board of Directors
To cater to the digital payments and financing needs of Manufacturers (OEMs) and fleet aggregators facilitated
customers and retailers, your Company has entered into adoption of Electrical Vehicles (EV) in TM&D operations.
strategic collaborations with banks and Fintech partners. The number of EV trips increased by 3x over the
These solutions have been seamlessly integrated with previous year.
the UNNATI platform to digitally empower and unlock
TM&D’s distribution highway is a source of sustainable
business growth for your Company’s trade partners.
competitive advantage for your Company’s FMCG
The scale and diversity of your Company’s distribution Businesses and is well-positioned to support the rapid
network remains pivotal in enhancing market presence, scale-up of operations in the ensuing years leveraging
gaining valuable insights into consumer & trade behaviour its best-in-class systems and processes, an agile and
and facilitating the execution of product launches responsive supply chain, and a synergistic relationship
across geographies. In order to effectively leverage new with its channel partners.
routes-to-markets and meet the assortment needs of
PAPERBOARDS, PAPER AND PACKAGING
new gen channels, your Company executed over
100 new product launches across target markets besides Paperboards & Specialty Papers
extending the availability of several existing products
After achieving record highs in FY 2022-23, the domestic
in the portfolio.
industry has faced significant challenges over the past two
Several interventions were undertaken by TM&D during years. The industry contended with a difficult operating
the year to drive structural improvement in operational environment, characterised by low-priced supplies of
effectiveness and productivity. During the year, your paperboards and paper from China and Indonesia in
Company continued to leverage the integrated planning global markets, including India, as well as weak demand
and supply chain tool, powered by best-in-class algorithms conditions, resulting in subdued realisations.
for inventory optimisation and productivity enhancement On the inputs front, wood prices witnessed sharp
to significantly improve supply chain agility and market escalation during the year, with wood availability and
servicing through enhanced forecast accuracy. The quality being significantly sub-optimal on account of
supply chain network was redesigned to enhance the lower plantations during the pandemic period and higher
premium portfolio availability both in existing and target demand from competing Wood Based Industries (WBI).
markets across urban and rural markets. TM&D continues
The cumulative impact of subdued realisations, excess
to augment warehousing infrastructure leveraging
supply in domestic markets led by unprecedented
cutting-edge technologies to cater to the growing scale of
increase in low-priced imports into India from China,
your Company’s FMCG Businesses.
Indonesia etc., sharp surge in wood costs, and
In line with your Company’s commitment to the currency-led volatility exerted pressure on margins during
‘Triple Bottom Line’, TM&D continued to focus its efforts the year. The Business was able to partially mitigate
for adoption of renewable energy sources in its operations. the impact of these challenges by leveraging structural
As part of your Company’s Sustainability 2.0 agenda, advantages of the integrated business model, stepped-up
TM&D is rapidly expanding its Green Logistics efforts for end-user engagements, Digital interventions and
mid mile and last mile deliveries in key cities across the increase in salience of exports and Plastic substitution
country. Collaborations with multiple Original Equipment (PlaSub) products.
As part of your Company’s Sustainability 2.0 agenda, TM&D is rapidly expanding its
Green Logistics efforts for mid mile and last mile deliveries in key cities across the country.
Collaborations with multiple Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and fleet aggregators
facilitated adoption of Electrical Vehicles (EV) in TM&D operations. The number of
EV trips increased by 3x over the previous year.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 65

[PAGE 84]
Report of the Board of Directors
The Business has also undertaken several initiatives to proximity to key raw material sources, mitigate operational
address the challenges of wood availability and surge in risks through multi-site operations and enhance resilience
costs, including inter alia, opportunity based wood imports, across industry cycles through portfolio diversification.
evaluation of leased plantation models, and acceleration The Business expects to drive structural improvement
in plantations in collaboration with industry stakeholders. in profitability of CPP through several value unlock
Your Company is pioneering a first ever initiative in interventions such as capacity debottlenecking, product
quality upgrade, efficiency improvement leveraging
Indian Wood Based Industry using satellite imaging for
TPM/Digital initiatives, supply chain optimisation, costs
plantation monitoring and wood assessment to monitor
and procurement efficiencies. The acquisition is also
pulpwood plantations and assess future harvestable
expected to strengthen the market standing of your
wood quantity available in various catchments.
Company’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business
The Business sustained its leadership position in the and engender new opportunities in the domestic and
Value-Added Paperboard (VAP) segment through focused international markets. The acquisition aligns with your
innovations and development of customised solutions Company’s strategy of driving the next horizon of growth
for end-use industries. The Business also consolidated in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business by
its leadership position in the eco-labelled products and expanding capacity at a new location considering that
premium recycled paperboards segments. the existing facilities are already saturated. The strong
linkages to afforestation and livelihood creation pursued
During the year, the Specialty Papers segment witnessed
by both the entities will also contribute meaningfully to
robust growth driven by capacity augmentation in
national priorities.
Décor paper. Market standing in the segment continues
The paperboards and packaging industry is poised
to be driven by product mix enrichment and diversification
for transformative change in the medium term.
of the customer base. The domestic industry remained
Customers are increasingly seeking solutions that are
under pressure due to cheap supplies from China.
bio-degradable, substitute single use plastic and meet
The levy of Anti-dumping duty on Décor paper has
stakeholder & regulatory expectations across industries
partially provided a level playing field for domestic industry,
including food serving & delivery, pharmaceutical, beauty
which is critical towards fostering domestic value chains
and electronics.
and enabling import substitution.
The Business has adopted a multi-tiered strategy to
During the year, your Company signed a Business Transfer
build solutions that will replace single use plastics and
Agreement to acquire the Pulp and Paper Undertaking
meet emergent consumer needs. Within the sustainable
(‘CPP’) of Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited (‘ABREL’) at
products portfolio – ‘Platform 1’ comprises a range of
Lalkuan (Nainital, Uttarakhand). Commissioned in 1984,
recyclable, compostable and barrier coated boards and
CPP is a well-established player in the Indian Paper
includes the ‘Filo’ series - ‘FiloBev’ (for beverage cups),
industry with an installed capacity of 4.8 Lakh tonnes
‘FiloServe’ (for QSR, bakeries, food retail) & ‘FiloPack’
per annum. CPP is a one-of-a-kind asset with a strong
(packaging for sweets and deep freeze applications).
strategic fit with your Company’s Paperboards & Specialty ‘FiloBev Mini’ (for economic cup variant for short servings)
Papers Business. The acquisition (which is expected to was developed during the year and has quickly gained
be completed in about six months) will immediately add market share in focus markets. The Filo series has
significant scale and economies to existing operations been certified compostable by the Central Institute of
with potential for further capacity expansion, provide Petrochemicals Engineering & Technology (CIPET) and the
locational advantage for efficient customer servicing and manufacturing unit at Bollaram has been registered as a
Your Company signed a Business Transfer Agreement to acquire
the Pulp and Paper Undertaking (‘CPP’) of Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited (‘ABREL’).
CPP is a one-of-a-kind asset with a strong strategic fit with your Company’s
Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business.
66 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 85]
Report of the Board of Directors
compostable products manufacturer. The state-of-the-art greater consistency in farmer earnings. In this context,
Coater machine set up during the year has enabled the your Company’s Life Sciences & Technology Centre is
business to quickly penetrate this fast-evolving space engaged in developing higher yielding second generation
which holds immense growth potential, supported by clones with enhanced pest and disease resistant attributes.
the R&D capabilities of your Company’s Life Sciences & The Business continues to focus on scaling up wood
Technology Centre, and through external collaborations sourcing from core areas and has increased plantations
with global specialists. The range of products in this in core area during the year. In addition, initiatives such
segment is witnessing strong growth momentum both as bund plantations and scaling up plantations in new
in domestic and international markets. ‘Platform 2’ catchment areas in Odisha and Chhattisgarh have enabled
comprises a range of first-to-market Fusion boards that procurement of nearly 10% of total wood requirement of
are fully recyclable and replace plastic ‘foam’ board. the Business from such new areas, with further potential
End-use applications include indoor display solutions for increasing cost-effective access to fibre in the future.
involving replacement of plastic signboards and shelves. Business has achieved highest ever plantation area of
~65000 ha (growth of appx. 30%) during the year.
‘Platform 3’ offers futuristic packaging solutions
Your Company has the distinction of being the first in India
comprising premium Moulded Fibre Products (MFP) made
to have obtained the Forest Stewardship Council-Forest
from renewable natural fibres such as wood, bamboo,
® ®
Management (FSC -FM) certification (FSC -C102390),
bagasse, waste paper etc. Your Company’s wholly-owned
which confirms compliance with the highest international
subsidiary, ITC Fibre Innovations Limited (IFIL), forayed
benchmarks of plantation management across the
into the fast-growing MFP space with the commissioning
dimensions of environmental responsibility, social benefit,
of a state-of-the-art MFP manufacturing facility in
and economic viability. Till date, your Company has received
Badiyakhedi, Madhya Pradesh in March 2024. During
®
FSC -FM certification for over 1.49 lakh acres of
the year, IFIL has substantially stabilised operations
plantations involving over 25000 farmers. During the year,
and scaled up commercial shipments. Going forward,
®
nearly 4.85 lakh tonnes of FSC -certified wood was
IFIL will leverage the expertise of the Business in
procured from these certified plantations. Your Company
fibre value chain, manufacturing excellence and strong
sustained its position as the leading supplier of
sustainability credentials to rapidly scale-up business
® ®
FSC -certified paper and paperboards (FSC -C064218)
with continued focus on developing innovative plastic
in India.
substitution solutions.
Your Company’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers
Your Company’s Packaging Board Centre of Excellence
Business is a pioneer in the adoption of Digital
was institutionalised during the year to further drive
technologies. In recent years, the Business has embarked
customer engagement on technical aspects, improve
upon a comprehensive Digital Transformation Programme
product performance and focus on new-gen product
across the vectors of manufacturing, supply chain and
development.
support services to achieve operational excellence,
The Business continues to procure wood, a key raw enable decarbonisation of operations, drive improvement
material, from sustainable sources. Research on clonal in profitability and improve safety across the value chain.
development has resulted in introduction of high-yielding The multi-dimensional digital interventions encompass
and disease-resistant clones that are adaptable to a Industrial IoT for Smart Operations, Integrated Data
wide variety of agro-climatic conditions. This has not only Platform, AI/ML algorithms for manufacturing process
aided in increasing farmer incomes but has also enabled optimisation, AI/ML based image analytics and IoT based
Your Company’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business is a pioneer in the adoption of
Digital technologies. The multi-dimensional digital interventions encompass
Industrial IoT for Smart Operations, Integrated Data Platform, AI/ML algorithms for
manufacturing process optimisation, AI/ML based image analytics and
IoT based crop monitoring & advisory, and computer vision-based
solutions to improve workforce safety.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 67