[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 32-34

[PAGE 32]
Report on Corporate Governance
The structure, processes and practices of governance Chairman: The Chairman is the Chief Executive of the
are designed to support effective management of multiple Company. He is the Chairman of the Board and the CMC
businesses while retaining focus on each one of them. and also presides over General Meetings of Shareholders.
His primary role is to provide leadership to the Board and
The Governance Document that sets out the
the CMC for realising Company goals in accordance with
structure, policies and practices of governance is
the charter approved by the Board. He is responsible,
available on the Company’s corporate website at
inter alia, for the working of the Board and the CMC, for
https://www.itcportal.com/governance-document .
ensuring that all relevant issues are on the agenda and
that all Directors and CMC Members are enabled and
ROLES OF VARIOUS ENTITIES
encouraged to play a full part in the activities of the Board
Board of Directors (‘Board’): The primary role of the Board
and the CMC, respectively. He keeps the Board informed
is that of trusteeship to protect and enhance shareholder on all matters of importance. He is also responsible for
value through strategic supervision of ITC and its balance of membership of the Board, subject to Board and
wholly owned subsidiaries. As trustees, the Board ensures Shareholder approvals.
that the Company has clear goals aligned to shareholder
Non-Executive Director: Non-Executive Directors, including
value and its growth. The Board sets strategic goals and
Independent Directors, play a critical role in imparting
seeks accountability for their fulfilment. The Board also balance to the Board processes by bringing independent
provides direction and exercises appropriate control to judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources,
ensure that the Company is managed in a manner that standards of Company conduct etc.
fulfils stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
Executive Director: The Executive Director assists
The Board, as part and parcel of its functioning, annually
the Board in realising its role of strategic supervision of
reviews its role and also evaluates its performance and the Company in pursuit of its purpose and goals. As a
that of the Board Committees & the Directors. member of the CMC, an Executive Director contributes
to the strategic management of the Company’s
Board Committees: The roles of the Board Committees
businesses within Board approved direction / framework.
are determined by the Board from time to time, synopsis
An Executive Director accountable to the Board for a
of which is provided under the heading ‘Committees
business assumes overall responsibility for its strategic
of the Board’.
management, including governance processes and
Corporate Management Committee (‘CMC’): The primary top management effectiveness. Similarly, as Director
role of the CMC is strategic management of the Company’s accountable to the Board for a corporate function, the
businesses within Board approved direction / framework overall strategic responsibility for its performance forms
and realisation of Company goals. The CMC also part of the Executive Director’s role. In the context of
assesses the performance of the businesses and allocates the multi-business character of the Company, an
resources, and operates under the strategic supervision Executive Director is in the nature of a Managing Director
of the Board. for those businesses and functions reporting to him.
CMC Member: The CMC Member contributes to the
Divisional Management Committee (‘DMC’): The primary
strategic management of the Company’s businesses within
role of the DMC is executive management of the business
Board approved direction / framework. A CMC Member
to realise tactical and strategic objectives in accordance
accountable for a business assumes responsibility for its
with the Board approved Business Plan.
strategic management, including governance processes
The Executive Committee for a Business Vertical within the and top management effectiveness. Similarly, where
Division is responsible to deliver comprehensive business accountable for a corporate function, the overall strategic
results under the overall direction and supervision of the responsibility for its performance forms part of the
Divisional Chief Executive supported by the DMC. CMC Member’s role.
14 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 33]
Report on Corporate Governance
Divisional Chief Executive: The Divisional Chief Executive
Director Category No. of No. of Membership(s) /
of a business has the executive responsibility for its other Chairpersonship(s) of
Directorship(s) Audit Committee /
day-to-day operations and provides leadership to the DMC
as on Stakeholders
in its task of executive management of the business and 31st March, Relationship
the Verticals within the Division. 2025 * Committee of other
Indian public limited
The Chief Operating Officer of a Business Vertical companies
is responsible for providing leadership to the as on 31st March, 2025
Executive Committee of the Vertical and realising S. Puri Chairman & 6 Nil
Managing Director
the tactical & strategic objectives of the respective
S. Dutta Executive Director & 10 2
business area.
Chief Financial Officer [also as Chairperson]
H. Malik Executive Director Nil Nil
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
B. Sumant Executive Director 2 Nil
Composition
H. Bhargava Independent Director 4 2
The ITC Board is a balanced Board comprising Executive [including 1 as
Chairperson]
and Non-Executive Directors, with Independent Directors
A. M. Bharucha Independent Director 4 4
representing at least 50% of the total strength of the Board.
[including 2 as
The Non-Executive Directors, including Independent Chairperson]
Directors, are all drawn from amongst eminent professionals C. K. Mishra Independent Director 7 2
with experience in business / finance / law / public S. Mukherjee Independent Director 2 3
administration and enterprises. The ITC Board is an [including 2 as
Chairperson]
optimal mix of professionalism, knowledge, experience
A. Nayak Independent Director Nil Nil
and diversity. The Directors of the Company also
N. Rao Independent Director 2 1
possess the skills, expertise and competencies, as
[also as Chairperson]
identified by the Board and provided in the Annexure
A. K. Seth Independent Director Nil Nil
forming part of this Report.
P. Subrahmanyam Independent Director Nil Nil
In terms of the applicable regulatory requirements read S. Mohanty Non-Executive Director 11 1
with the Articles of Association of the Company, the Representative of the
strength of the Board shall not be fewer than six nor more Life Insurance Corporation
of India as Investor
than eighteen. The present strength of the Board is sixteen
A. Pande Non-Executive Director 1 Nil
comprising the Chairman & Managing Director, three
Representative of the
Executive Directors, eight Non-Executive Independent Specified Undertaking of
Directors, of which three are Women Directors, and the Unit Trust of India as
Investor
four Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors.
S. Panray Non-Executive Director Nil Nil
Composition of the Board as on 31st March, 2025:
Representative of
Tobacco Manufacturers
Category No. of Percentage to
(India) Limited (‘TMI’),
Directors total no. of Directors a subsidiary of British
American Tobacco p.l.c.,
Executive Directors 4 25.00
as Investor
Non-Executive Independent Directors 8 50.00 A. Singh Non-Executive Director 1 Nil
Representative of TMI as
Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors 4 25.00 Investor
Total 16 100.00 * Details with respect to other Directorships are provided under the section ‘Your Directors’
in the Report and Accounts.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 15

[PAGE 34]
Report on Corporate Governance
Meetings and Attendance Write-offs / disposals of fixed assets, inventories,
receivables, advances etc.
The Company’s Governance Policy requires the Board to
meet at least five times in a year. The tentative annual Significant development in Human Resources /
calendar of meetings is determined at the beginning Industrial Relations.
of each year. During the financial year 2024-25, the
Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing
intervening period between two Board Meetings was well
requirements and in relation to shareholders’ services.
within the maximum gap of 120 days prescribed under the
Post-meeting follow-up system
Listing Regulations.
The Governance processes in the Company include an
Board Agenda
effective post-meeting follow-up, review and reporting
Meetings are governed by a structured agenda. The Board
process for action taken / pending on decisions of the Board,
Members, in consultation with the Chairman, may bring up
the Board Committees, the CMC and the DMCs.
any matter for the consideration of the Board. All major
agenda items are backed by comprehensive background Details of Board Meetings during the financial year
information to enable the Board to take informed decisions. 2024-25
Agenda papers are generally circulated between seven to
Six meetings of the Board were held, as follows:
fourteen days prior to the Board Meeting.
Sl. Date Board Strength No. of
Information placed before the Board
No. Directors
In terms of the Company’s Governance Policy, all statutory present
and other significant & material information are placed
1 15th April, 2024 18 16
before the Board to enable it to discharge its responsibility
of strategic supervision of the Company as trustees of 2 23rd May, 2024 18 17
Shareholders. The following in particular are tabled for the 3 1st August, 2024 17 17
Board’s approval / periodic review or information:
4 24th October, 2024 16 16
Annual operating plans & budgets and periodic review
5 6th February, 2025 16 16
of the Company’s businesses.
6 31st March, 2025 16 15
Quarterly, half-yearly and annual performance,
including business segment-wise financials. Attendance at Board Meetings and at Annual General
External Audit Management Reports (through the Meeting (‘AGM’) during the financial year 2024-25
Audit Committee).
Director No. of Board Attendance at
Status of safety and legal compliance.
Meetings attended last AGM
Status and effectiveness of risk management plans.
S. Puri 6 Yes
CSR and sustainability initiatives of the Company
S. Dutta 6 Yes
(through the CSR and Sustainability Committee).
Succession to senior management (through the H. Malik 6 Yes
Nomination & Compensation Committee). B. Sumant 6 Yes
Statutory compliance reports from business units /
H. Bhargava 6 Yes
corporate functions.
A. M. Bharucha 6 Yes
Show cause / demand / prosecution / adjudication
notices, if any, from revenue authorities which are C. K. Mishra 1 3 N.A.
considered materially important, including any S. Mohanty 2 1 N.A.
exposure that exceeds 1% of the Company’s net worth
S. Mukherjee 6 Yes
and their outcome.
A. Nayak 6 Yes
Significant court judgement or order passing strictures,
if any, on the conduct of the Company or a subsidiary of A. Pande 3 4 N.A.
the Company or any employee, which could negatively
S. Panray 6 Yes
impact the Company’s image.
N. Rao 4 Yes
Product liability claims of substantial nature, if any.
A. K. Seth 6 Yes
Default, if any, in payment of dues to any major creditor.
16 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025