[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 129-131

[PAGE 129]
Report of the Board of Directors
CSR Expenditure of safety in business operations. These initiatives are
bringing in positive behavioural changes.
The annual report on Corporate Social Responsibility
activities, as required under Sections 134 and 135 of the Several national awards and certifications received by
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 of the Companies various units reaffirm your Company’s commitment to
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 provide safe and healthy workplace to all.
and Rule 9 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, is
R&D, QUALITY AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
provided in the Annexure forming part of this Report.
Your Company’s state-of-the-art Life Sciences and
Environment, Health & Safety
Technology Centre (LSTC) in Bengaluru is at the core
Your Company’s Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) of driving science-led product innovation to build and
strategies are directed towards achieving the greenest support your Company’s portfolio of world-class products
and safest operations across all your Company’s units and brands. Over the years, LSTC has emerged as
by optimising natural resource usage and providing a a robust innovation engine that is a key enabler of the
safe and healthy workplace. Systemic efforts continue ‘ITC Next’ growth strategy. Reinforced with world-class
to be made towards natural resource conservation by infrastructure, resourced with a diverse team of over
continuously improving resource-use efficiencies. 400 highly qualified scientists, LSTC continues to drive
various initiatives to provide differentiation and competitive
Your Company believes that a safe and healthy work
edge to your Company’s brands and products.
environment is a pre-requisite for ensuring employee
well-being and adopting best practices in occupational Driving purposeful innovations that fulfil the needs of the
health & safety bears a direct impact on overall Indian consumer through superior offerings remains the
performance. With an aim to percolate safety deeper key objective of LSTC. Centres of Excellence across
into your Company’s operational practices and achieve domains viz. Biosciences, Agri-sciences & Materials
the ‘Zero Accident’ goal, your Company has adopted a sciences enabled building capabilities over the years
comprehensive EHS strategy founded on two pillars: to cater to the constantly evolving needs of consumers.
‘Safety by Design’ and ‘Safety by Culture’. Focused research across identified domains viz. Health
& Wellness, Formulation Design, Sustainable Materials &
Safety
Packaging, Agro-forestry and Crop Science has enabled
Your Company sustained focus on ‘Safety by Design’ the teams to harness contemporary advances in relevant
by continuously striving to improve safety performance core areas to translate ‘proofs of concept’ to novel product
and incorporating best-in-class engineering standards opportunities. Bearing testimony to LSTC’s innovation
for all investments in the built environment. Designs for capabilities while building the intellectual assets for your
all new greenfield & brownfield project investments are Company, over 800 patent applications have been filed
scrutinised to ensure compliance with relevant standards till date. Robust risk management practices are in place
and codes on safety. Periodic Environment, Health & to ensure that your Company’s intellectual properties
Safety audits continue to be carried out in operational remain adequately protected and to ensure mitigation of
units to verify compliance with relevant standards. information and infrastructure risk.
To drive a culture of safety, your Company, in addition Research programmes and projects are structured
to comprehensive focus on training, continues to hold through close alignment with the various Businesses of
structured conversations with workers on ‘Safe and your Company resulting in a robust innovation pipeline.
Unsafe’ Acts. These are supplemented by adoption of Additionally, in line with your Company’s relentless focus
keystone behaviours that inculcates individual ownership on operational excellence and quality, each Business
for safe behaviour. Your Company has also made use is mandated to continuously innovate on materials,
of Design Thinking principles for seamless integration processes and systems to enhance their competitiveness.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 111

[PAGE 130]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company has been a forerunner in introducing ideas are fully integrated across the value chain from
first-to-market innovative products for Indian consumers. farm to fork.
In today’s operating scenario of geopolitical tensions
Infrastructure and capabilities are strengthened
and inflationary pressures, LSTC scientists and
continuously keeping in pace with the global developments
product development teams continue to enable various
in science and technology. Expanding capabilities include
ITC businesses to deliver a range of differentiated,
spreading the acreage of new tree clones with superior
superior quality products at competitive costs. Innovative
properties, developing modern instrumentation for testing
science-based Platform projects have been developed
very low levels of actives or contaminants, measuring
to solve a range of consumer and technical product
barrier properties (air and water permeability) of coated
challenges. Novel technologies are continuously being
paper substrate, etc.
leveraged to drive creation of healthier foods through
systematic reduction in salt, sugar and fat without Rigorous systems, processes and industry best practices
compromising on sensory attributes. Leading edge are continuously upgraded to secure quality certifications
technology platforms in Personal Health & Hygiene, of the highest levels – a key enabler in delivering products
Health & Wellness continue to power innovation and that follow the highest standards in quality, safety and
develop next generation product offerings to serve efficacy to the Indian consumer. All branded packaged
emerging consumer needs. LSTC’s unique competencies foods manufacturing units of your Company not only
in Sustainable Materials and Packaging have enabled have ISO quality certification but also follow the highest
development of packaging options with high degree standards under the integrated food quality management
of recycled plastics content and novel barrier coating system-FSSC 22000; these systems ensure adherence
solutions to create next generation environmentally to internationally accepted quality standards in producing
friendly packaging solutions. safe and high-quality food. All manufacturing units of
the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses (including
In Agro-Forestry and Crop Science, your Company’s
contract manufacturing units) operate in compliance
scientists have established different cutting-edge tools &
with stringent food safety and quality standards.
technology platforms for improving tree & crop species of
Your Company’s food quality assurance laboratories
your Company’s interests (like yield, quality, abiotic & biotic
are accredited by the National Accreditation Board for
stress) for securing the raw material. Ongoing research
Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) under ISO
has major emphasis on developing climate resilient crops
17025, a global standard for testing and calibrating labs,
and pulp wood species in order to address the security
which guarantees quality. Additionally, the quality of all
of raw material supplies across your Company’s value
FMCG products of your Company is monitored through
chains and also ensuring enhanced farmer profitability.
best-in-class customer-centric ‘Quality Control and
Research on wheat and potato varietal securitisation are
Quality Assurance Processes’ and ‘Product Quality
at advanced stages of deployment to achieve flexibility
Ratings Systems’ (PQRS) enhancing competitive
in sourcing of raw material, create region-specific blends
superiority of your Company’s product offerings.
and ensure robust agro-climatic adaptability for growing
and sourcing raw materials closer to the factories at In its quest to continuously enhance efficiency and
competitive costs, in addition to reducing the carbon be future-ready, LSTC is developing and deploying
footprint. Future-ready, alternate value chains that cutting-edge digital tools for quality performance analytics,
mitigate risks arising out of disruptions to existing sourcing benchmarking and strengthen quality management
models continue to be explored. LSTC has deployed systems. Going forward, LSTC will continue to identify
various digital transformation tools at farm level to growth opportunities leveraging your Company’s
bring in predictive capability with agility. LSTC, in diverse core competencies and R&D insights emerging
collaboration with the Agri and Branded Packaged Foods from close consumer interactions and contemporary
Businesses, endeavours to ensure that science-based science & technology.
112 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 131]
Report of the Board of Directors
PROCEEDINGS INITIATED BY THE ENFORCEMENT including engagement with market participants, ensured
DIRECTORATE that the investment portfolio was not exposed to undue
credit risks.
In the proceedings initiated by the Enforcement Directorate
in 1997, the appropriate authority after hearing arguments In the currency market, the Indian Rupee (INR) witnessed
on behalf of your Company has passed several orders significant volatility during the year. While the INR
in favour of your Company and dropped some of the remained relatively stable during the first half of the
show cause notices issued by the Directorate. In respect year supported by strong domestic fundamentals and
of some of the remaining notices, your Company filed healthy capital inflows, the second half saw considerable
writ petitions challenging their validity. The Honourable two-way movements. The weakness in the INR was
Calcutta High Court heard some of these writ petitions primarily attributed to the strengthening of the USD
to completion, and the proceedings in respect of these relative to all major currencies, driven by concerns over
notices were quashed. The remaining writ petitions and potential tariff hikes by the US Government. Additionally,
notices are pending adjudication/hearing. higher capital outflows during this period weighed on the
INR. However, the INR witnessed a rebound towards the
Meanwhile, some of the prosecutions launched by the
end of the year on the back of a narrowing trade deficit
Enforcement Directorate have been quashed by the
and a weakening USD amidst heightened global trade
Honourable Calcutta High Court; while the remaining have
uncertainties. Robust foreign exchange reserves and
been challenged before the High Court and are pending.
strategic interventions in the currency markets by the RBI
also provided support to the INR.
TREASURY OPERATIONS
As in earlier years, commensurate with the size of the
Your Company’s treasury operations continued to focus
temporary surplus liquidity under management, treasury
on deployment of surplus liquidity and management of
operations continue to be supported by appropriate
foreign exchange exposures within a well-defined risk
internal control systems, and independent check of
management framework.
100% of transactions by your Company’s Internal
During the year market interest rates declined sharply Audit Department.
across both short and long term maturities. The Reserve
Your Company adopted proactive risk management
Bank of India (RBI) adopted an accommodative monetary
approach and actively managed foreign currency
policy stance, cutting the repo rate by a cumulative
exposures through appropriate hedging strategies and
50 basis points since April 2024 on the back of easing
market instruments to protect business margins.
inflation and to boost economic activity. In addition,
the RBI deployed several liquidity management tools,
DEPOSITS
which pushed the banking system liquidity from a deficit
Your Company’s erstwhile Public Deposit Scheme closed
position between November 2024 and February 2025 to
in the year 2000. As at 31st March, 2025, there were
a surplus by the end of the financial year. The decline in
no deposits due for repayment except in respect of two
interest rates for longer maturities was further aided by
deposit holders aggregating ` 20000 which have been
robust demand from Foreign Portfolio Investors following
withheld on the basis of directives received from the
the inclusion of Indian Government Securities in the
government agencies.
JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index and an
improving fiscal position. There was no failure to make repayments of Fixed
Deposits on maturity and the interest due thereon in terms
Investment decisions relating to deployment of surplus
of the conditions of your Company’s erstwhile Schemes.
liquidity continued to be guided by the tenets of Safety,
Liquidity and Return. Treasury operations focused on Your Company has not accepted any deposit from the
proactive rebalancing of portfolio duration and mix, in public/members under Section 73 of the Companies Act,
line with the evolving interest rate environment. Further, 2013 read with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits)
continuous review and monitoring of credit worthiness, Rules, 2014 during the year.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 113