[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 19-21

[PAGE 19]
Board of Directors
Chairman & Managing Director
Sanjiv Puri Non-Executive Directors
Hemant Bhargava Alok Pande
Executive Directors
Alka Marezban Bharucha Sunil Panray
Sumant Bhargavan Chandra Kishore Mishra Nirupama Rao
Supratim Dutta Siddhartha Mohanty Ajit Kumar Seth
(also Chief Financial Officer)
Shyamal Mukherjee Atul Singh
Hemant Malik
Anand Nayak Pushpa Subrahmanyam
Board Committees
Audit Committee CSR and Sustainability Nomination &
Committee Compensation Committee
H Bhargava Chairman
A M Bharucha Member S Puri Chairman A Nayak Chairman
C K Mishra Member C K Mishra Member S Puri Member
S Mukherjee Member S Mohanty Member A K Seth Member
S Dutta Invitee S Mukherjee Member P Subrahmanyam Member
N K Jasper Invitee A Pande Member R K Singhi Secretary
(Head of Internal Audit) S Panray Member
Representative of Invitee N Rao Member
the Statutory Auditors
A Singh Member
R K Singhi Secretary
R K Singhi Secretary
Securityholders Independent Directors
Relationship Committee Committee
A K Seth Chairman H Bhargava Member
S Dutta Member A M Bharucha Member
B Sumant Member C K Mishra Member
R K Singhi Secretary S Mukherjee Member
A Nayak Member
N Rao Member
A K Seth Member
P Subrahmanyam Member
Corporate Management Executive Vice President & Company Secretary
Rajendra Kumar Singhi
Committee
General Counsel
Shanmuga Sundaram Angamuthu
S Puri Chairman
Investor Service Centre
S Dutta Member
37 Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Kolkata 700 071, India
S Kaul Member Telephone nos. : 1800-345-8152 (toll free)
H Malik Member 033 2288 6426 / 0034
Facsimile no. : 033 2288 2358
A K Rajput Member
e-mail : isc@itc.in
S Sivakumar Member
Statutory Auditors
B Sumant Member S R B C & CO LLP
R K Singhi Secretary Chartered Accountants, Mumbai
Registered Office
Virginia House
37 Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Kolkata 700 071, India
Telephone no. : 033 2288 9371
CIN : L16005WB1910PLC001985
ITC Corporate Website : www.itcportal.com
ITC Limited 1
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 20]
Your Directors
S. Puri Lending new wings to ITC’s credo of ‘Nation First:
Sab Saath Badhein’, he has articulated an ambitious
Sanjiv Puri (62), DIN: 00280529, is the Chairman &
Sustainability 2.0 vision that addresses key issues such as
Managing Director of ITC Limited.
climate change, circular economy and inclusive growth,
Puri was appointed as a Wholetime Director on the enabling ITC to strengthen its contribution to a net-zero
Board of ITC with effect from December 6, 2015, future and meaningfully support national priorities.
Chief Executive Officer in February 2017 and
Puri is the Immediate Past President of CII, the apex
re-designated as the Managing Director in May 2018.
business and industry association in the country.
He was appointed as the Chairman effective May 13, 2019.
He is the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
He is an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology,
Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, and
Kanpur, and the Wharton School of Business, USA.
Chairman of the Advisory Council of the CII-ITC Centre of
Puri joined ITC in January 1986. During his career of Excellence for Sustainable Development. He is a Director
close to four decades at ITC and its subsidiaries, he on the Board of US-India Strategic Partnership Forum,
has held several business leadership positions and also Member of the BRICS Business Council - India Chapter,
handled a wide range of responsibilities in manufacturing,
and also a Member of the Governing Body of the
operations and information & digital technology.
National Council of Applied Economic Research.
Puri served as the Chief Operating Officer (‘COO’) of ITC
Puri has served as the Chairman of the Expert Group
between July 2016 and January 2017, and prior to that
constituted by the Fifteenth Finance Commission
as President - FMCG Businesses since December 2014.
of the Government of India to promote agri-exports
Earlier, he was the Divisional Chief Executive of the
and a Member of the technology discussion group
Tobacco Division since December 2009, with additional
‘Farm to Table - driving India’s agriculture sector digitally’
responsibility for the Company’s Trade Marketing &
constituted by the NITI Aayog. He was also the Chairman
Distribution (‘TM&D’) Vertical from August 2012. He led
of the ‘Action Council on ESG in Business’ under
ITC Infotech India Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary
the aegis of Business 20 India, the official dialogue
of ITC, as its Managing Director from May 2006 to
forum with the global business community as part of
August 2009. He served between October 2001 and
India’s G20 Presidency, as well as the Co-Chair of the
April 2006 as the Managing Director of Surya Nepal
‘Business Commission to Tackle Inequality’ set up by the
Private Limited, a joint venture subsidiary company of
World Business Council for Sustainable Development,
ITC in Nepal.
Geneva.
Spearheading the ‘ITC Next’ vision, Puri has driven an
extensive strategy reset to define new vectors of growth for During the year, Puri was conferred with the
each business with greater focus on consumer-centricity, ‘AIMA - JRD TATA Corporate Leadership Award’ by
agility, resilience and inspired talent to build an even the All India Management Association (AIMA), and
more competitive, future-tech, innovative, climate positive ‘Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and
and inclusive enterprise. His emphasis on purposeful Social Peace’ by XLRI Jamshedpur. In 2024, he was
and cutting-edge innovation has led to the creation of honoured with the ‘Business Leader of the Year Award’
sharp focused R&D platforms in areas aligned to market by AIMA, ‘Best CEO Award’ by Business Today, and
opportunities. Given his deep conviction that mega trends ‘Transformational Leader Award 2022-23’ by the
like Digital and Sustainability will reshape the future, Asian Centre for Corporate Governance and Sustainability;
Puri has passionately rallied the organisation to develop he also featured in the list of ‘India’s Best CEOs 2024’
capabilities and channelise investments & resources in the ‘Diversified Conglomerate’ category published by
to enhance competitiveness of existing businesses Fortune India. He has earlier been conferred with
as well as identify tech-enabled growth opportunities. the ‘IMPACT Person of the Year, 2020 Award’ by
2 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 21]
Your Directors
exchange4media, a leading online news platform, A qualified Chartered Accountant and Cost Accountant,
‘Distinguished Alumnus Award of the year 2018’ by Dutta joined ITC in November 1990. In a career spanning
the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, and was over three decades at ITC, he has held various senior
also bestowed with an Honorary Doctorate by the roles in the finance function, both at the business and
XIM University, Bhubaneshwar. corporate level. Before becoming the CFO, he held
Other Directorships the position of the Corporate Financial Controller
of the Company, and prior to that, he was
Name of the entity Position
Executive Vice President - Corporate Finance in charge
ITC Hotels Limited # Chairperson & of the Corporate Treasury, Strategic Planning and
Non-Executive Director
Corporate Planning Functions of the Company.
ITC Infotech India Limited Chairperson & He has handled various aspects of finance including
Non-Executive Director Planning, Treasury, M&A, Accounting, Taxation, IT,
Investor Relations and business strategy. He has also
ITC Infotech Limited, UK * Chairperson &
served as a Member of the World Business Council for
Non-Executive Director
Sustainable Development CFO Network.
ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. * Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director Dutta is a Member of the CII National Committee on
Financial Reporting. During the year, he was honoured
Surya Nepal Private Limited * Chairperson &
with the ‘Group CFO of the Year - Large Enterprise Award’
Non-Executive Director
at the Economic Times CFO Awards 2025.
Indian School of Business Member, Governing
Other Directorships
Board and Executive
Board Name of the entity Position
Committee Membership of other entities Russell Credit Limited Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director
Name of the entity Committee Position
ITC Integrated Business Chairperson &
ITC Hotels Limited CSR and Chairperson
Services Limited Non-Executive Director
Sustainability
Committee Gold Flake Corporation Limited Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director
Nomination and Member
Remuneration Greenacre Holdings Limited Chairperson &
Committee Non-Executive Director
ITC Hotels Limited # Non-Executive Director
ITC Infotech India Limited Non-Executive Director
S. Dutta
ITC Infotech Limited, UK * Non-Executive Director
Supratim Dutta (58), DIN: 01804345, was appointed
ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. * Non-Executive Director
as a Wholetime Director on the Board of ITC effective
July 22, 2022. He is also the Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’) Surya Nepal Private Limited * Non-Executive Director
of the Company. He is, inter alia, responsible for Finance,
WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Non-Executive Director
Accounting, Internal Audit & IT Functions and also for the
Limited *
Investment Subsidiaries of the Company.
ITC Limited 3
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025