[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 91-93

[PAGE 91]
Report of the Board of Directors
continued to pose myriad challenges to your Company’s organic products. Committed to sustainable farm
Agri Business during the year. management practices backed by Rainforest Alliance
and Global GAP accreditation, your Company has
The Business continued to map risks and opportunities
successfully leveraged ITCMAARS to strengthen
arising out of the unfolding global trade dynamics and
farmer connections, improve traceability, and drive
build adaptive capacity to enhance resilience of its
sustainable agricultural practices. During the year,
business models. In spite of the challenging operating
the Business significantly expanded its value-added
environment, your Company leveraged its strong
portfolio, achieving substantial growth in organic,
farm linkages, extensive sourcing expertise, enabling
steam-sterilised, and processed powder segments.
traceable, attribute-based and identity-preserved sourcing
of commodities, multi-modal logistics capability, agile The Business remains committed to execution
supply chain operations, deep customer relationships, excellence - capacity utilisation at the state-of-the-art
and focus on scaling up the Value-Added Agri Products spices processing facility in Andhra Pradesh has been
(VAAP) portfolio, to drive robust growth during the year. further scaled up; the Business continues to maintain
Easing food inflationary pressures and higher inventories its unblemished track record in terms of complying
of food grains have enabled partial lifting of certain trade with stringent food safety parameters. The proportion
restrictions towards the end of the year, which augurs well of custom-made products in the overall portfolio has
for the year ahead. increased considerably, underscoring your Company’s
strategic focus on premium offerings. The Business
As reported in earlier years, the scope and scale of
has successfully broadened its customer base
operations of your Company’s Agri Business have grown
across various markets, showcasing strong customer
manifold over the years and currently encompasses
acquisition capabilities and a commitment to building
over 3.5 million tonnes of annual throughput in 22 states
lasting relationships. Additionally, the Business has
and over 20 agri-value chains. The strategic focus of
gained market share in the export market, reinforcing
the Business continues to be on accelerating growth by
its position as the leading Indian exporter of whole
rapidly scaling up its Value-Added Agri Products (VAAP)
and value-added spices.
portfolio, straddling multiple value chains comprising
Spices, Coffee, Frozen Marine Products and Processed – During the year, international coffee prices surged
Fruits, amongst others. primarily due to lower supply in global markets by
leading coffee producers viz. Brazil and Vietnam.
– Your Company further consolidated its position as
a preferred supply chain partner to buyers in spices Driven by strong demand, Indian coffee exports
such as Chilli, Cumin, Turmeric, and Coriander. witnessed robust growth.
The Business enhanced its presence in ‘food safe’
Your Company leveraged its strategic sourcing
markets, viz., the USA, EU, and UK, by leveraging
presence in major coffee-growing regions of India
its institutional strengths, such as identity-preserved
and deepened its focus on certified and sustainably
sourcing expertise, strong backward integration,
sourced coffees to expand its market share in exports.
supply chain control, and customer-centric strategies.
The Business strengthened its footprint across key
The Business continues to scale up its Organic and international markets, particularly in Europe and the
Integrated Crop Management (ICM) programmes, Middle East, by leveraging its long-standing customer
expanding organic cultivation across multiple relationships, strong sustainability credentials and
states to meet the growing demand for certified agile execution. Continued expansion of certified
The scope and scale of operations of your Company’s Agri Business have grown manifold
over the years and currently encompasses over 3.5 million tonnes of annual throughput in
22 states and over 20 agri-value chains. The strategic focus of the Business continues to be
on accelerating growth by rapidly scaling up its Value-Added Agri Products (VAAP) portfolio,
straddling multiple value chains comprising Spices, Coffee, Frozen Marine Products and
Processed Fruits, amongst others.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 73

[PAGE 92]
Report of the Board of Directors
acreage and investments in traceable and sustainable Your Company continues to drive agricultural
supply chains demonstrate the Business’ commitment transformation at scale through ITCMAARS
to responsible sourcing and future-readiness. (Metamarket for Advanced Agriculture and Rural Services),
a pioneering ‘Phygital’ platform that integrates digital
Your Company continues to be one of India’s leading
capabilities with on-ground engagement. ITCMAARS is a
exporters of value-added frozen marine products,
with strong capabilities in processing individually crop-agnostic full-stack AgriTech platform, that has been
quick-frozen (IQF), raw, and cooked products, steadily enhancing procurement efficiency, optimising
adhering to the highest safety and hygiene standards supply chains, and creating new avenues for value
demanded by discerning markets such as the US, EU, generation while delivering meaningful benefits to the
and Japan. The Business strengthened its position farming community. Using Farmer Producer Organisations
in the ‘Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) (FPOs) for physical engagement and a super app for
certified shrimp’ segment, reinforcing its leadership digital services, ITCMAARS is catalysing farmer impact
in sustainable seafood and aligning with customers’ at scale.
responsible procurement goals.
The ITCMAARS super app, which farmers can download
During the year, the Indian shrimp industry faced a on their phones, acts as a single point resource for farmers,
challenging environment marked by volatile farm providing personalised agricultural services through a plug
gate prices and supply chain headwinds. Despite and play model. This digital platform provides AI/ML driven
these challenges, your Company expanded its reach
personalised climate-smart crop advisories, intelligent
through market development in countries such as
nudges, customised soil nutrition, vernacular and voice
Greece, Israel, and Malaysia, and by launching
enabled Generative AI, satellite sensing and real-time
strategic product extensions, in line with its portfolio
image recognition tools for the farming community.
diversification goals.
The physical layer enables access to cutting edge
– Your Company continues to enhance its capabilities agricultural techniques such as biological agri inputs,
in the Medicinal and Aromatic Plant Extracts (MAPE) nano fertilizers, drones, precision farming technologies,
segment by strengthening backward integration, scientific quality assaying, market linkages and
cultivation programmes, and its portfolio of plant-based seamless access to formal credit at villages through
extracts. Focusing on Ayurvedic ingredients like FPOs and partners.
ashwagandha, turmeric, and marigold, the Business
This initiative now spans across more than 2,050 FPOs
deepened farmer engagement to ensure traceability
encompassing over 2.1 million connected farmers
and quality compliance. Your Company’s MAPE farm
across 11 states. Operating across more than
in Madhya Pradesh continues to play a pivotal role
10 crop value chains, the platform partners with
in varietal selection trials, seed production, and
establishing standardised package of practices, over 100 leading institutions, including banks, agri-input
enhancing the Business’ technical capabilities. companies, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR),
The Business also initiated organic cultivation to meet and agri-tech startups. The ITCMAARS super app,
the growing demand for certified organic extracts in available in 8 regional languages, has emerged as
premium export markets and is developing unique India’s highest-rated agriTech app. The ‘KrishiMitra’
value-added products leveraging the research voice assistant, the world’s first Gen AI-based chatbot for
platforms of the Life Sciences and Technology Centre farmers, has significantly boosted digital adoption through
of your Company. vernacular and voice-based interactions.
Your Company leveraged its strategic sourcing presence in
major coffee-growing regions of India and deepened its focus on
certified and sustainably sourced coffees to expand its market share in exports.
74 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 93]
Report of the Board of Directors
As India’s regulatory and consumer landscape increasingly – During the year, farmer-driven milk procurement
demands traceability and sustainability, ITCMAARS is network in Bihar, West Bengal, and Jharkhand
laying the foundation for ‘Trust Systems at Scale’, enabling was strengthened to meet the growing demands
the farming community to meet evolving standards of your Company’s Fresh Dairy portfolio under the
such as the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) and ‘Aashirvaad Svasti’ brand and the ‘Sunfeast’
sustainably produced certification requirements. With a Dairy Beverages in Punjab. The Business expanded
vision to empower millions of farmers and unlock new the use of digital tools, including automated collection
value pools across the agri-inputs, outputs, and services systems, GPS-enabled logistics, and direct farmer
domains, your Company remains deeply committed to payments, to bring greater transparency across the
leveraging ITCMAARS to deliver enhanced productivity, value chain. Tailored dairy extension services covering
improved market access, and resilient incomes for India’s animal nutrition, health, and productivity enhancement
farming communities. were scaled up, improving yields and reinforcing
farmer loyalty. These efforts have enhanced farmer
Over the years, your Company has invested significantly
profitability while ensuring sustained delivery of
in building competitively superior agri-commodity
superior-quality milk aligned with brand requirements.
sourcing expertise comprising multiple business models,
The capability to source superior attribute-specific
wide geographical spread and customised infrastructure.
milk has enabled your Company to expand its
Your company is rapidly building expertise in data-science
Fresh Dairy portfolio with several innovative offerings.
led decision support systems to deepen its sourcing
capability. AI/ML models dynamically respond to evolving – The Business continues to scale-up sourcing
conditions across multiple sourcing dimensions and of spices to meet the growing requirements of
support the sourcing experts in making optimal decisions Sunrise and Aashirvaad brands.
around temporal and spatial vectors. These capabilities – Going forward, the organic sourcing capabilities, farm
and infrastructure have created structural advantages by linkages and traceability would also become a source
facilitating competitive sourcing of agri raw materials for of competitive advantage for the organic portfolio of
your Company’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses. your Company’s FMCG Businesses.
– The Business continued to play a pivotal role in The Business strengthened its collaborations with
securing benchmark-quality wheat to support the leading research institutions across India to build
growing requirements of the ‘Aashirvaad’ atta portfolio. cost-effective, high-yielding, and resilient Agri-value
Leveraging a wide sourcing network, robust crop chains. By mapping climate hotspots and focusing on
development initiatives, and digital tools, the Business regenerative agriculture, your Company introduced
ensured timely and cost-efficient procurement of location-specific seed varieties and tailored agricultural
critical grades of wheat. During the year, procurement practices in key states. This approach is aimed at
was scaled through direct farm linkages and FPOs, enhancing crop intelligence, reducing GHG emissions,
with a significant share of wheat sourced via digitally and improving soil health. Additionally, efforts to increase
enabled platforms. Crop development efforts were farm income were supported through the development
intensified to improve climate resilience, enhance of customised Agri-inputs, laying the foundation for
yields, and secure premium varieties to provide sustainable, future-ready food products. Your Company
consumers with best-in-class product quality and continued developing the millets value chain, promoting
experience. climate-resilient, nutrient-dense crops through public-private
The Agri Business strengthened its collaborations with leading research institutions
across India to build cost-effective, high-yielding, and resilient Agri-value chains.
By mapping climate hotspots and focusing on regenerative agriculture,
your Company introduced location-specific seed varieties and
tailored agricultural practices in key states.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 75