[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 20-22

[PAGE 20]
Your Directors
S. Puri Lending new wings to ITC’s credo of ‘Nation First:
Sab Saath Badhein’, he has articulated an ambitious
Sanjiv Puri (62), DIN: 00280529, is the Chairman &
Sustainability 2.0 vision that addresses key issues such as
Managing Director of ITC Limited.
climate change, circular economy and inclusive growth,
Puri was appointed as a Wholetime Director on the enabling ITC to strengthen its contribution to a net-zero
Board of ITC with effect from December 6, 2015, future and meaningfully support national priorities.
Chief Executive Officer in February 2017 and
Puri is the Immediate Past President of CII, the apex
re-designated as the Managing Director in May 2018.
business and industry association in the country.
He was appointed as the Chairman effective May 13, 2019.
He is the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the
He is an alumnus of the Indian Institute of Technology,
Indian Institute of Technology, Gandhinagar, and
Kanpur, and the Wharton School of Business, USA.
Chairman of the Advisory Council of the CII-ITC Centre of
Puri joined ITC in January 1986. During his career of Excellence for Sustainable Development. He is a Director
close to four decades at ITC and its subsidiaries, he on the Board of US-India Strategic Partnership Forum,
has held several business leadership positions and also Member of the BRICS Business Council - India Chapter,
handled a wide range of responsibilities in manufacturing,
and also a Member of the Governing Body of the
operations and information & digital technology.
National Council of Applied Economic Research.
Puri served as the Chief Operating Officer (‘COO’) of ITC
Puri has served as the Chairman of the Expert Group
between July 2016 and January 2017, and prior to that
constituted by the Fifteenth Finance Commission
as President - FMCG Businesses since December 2014.
of the Government of India to promote agri-exports
Earlier, he was the Divisional Chief Executive of the
and a Member of the technology discussion group
Tobacco Division since December 2009, with additional
‘Farm to Table - driving India’s agriculture sector digitally’
responsibility for the Company’s Trade Marketing &
constituted by the NITI Aayog. He was also the Chairman
Distribution (‘TM&D’) Vertical from August 2012. He led
of the ‘Action Council on ESG in Business’ under
ITC Infotech India Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary
the aegis of Business 20 India, the official dialogue
of ITC, as its Managing Director from May 2006 to
forum with the global business community as part of
August 2009. He served between October 2001 and
India’s G20 Presidency, as well as the Co-Chair of the
April 2006 as the Managing Director of Surya Nepal
‘Business Commission to Tackle Inequality’ set up by the
Private Limited, a joint venture subsidiary company of
World Business Council for Sustainable Development,
ITC in Nepal.
Geneva.
Spearheading the ‘ITC Next’ vision, Puri has driven an
extensive strategy reset to define new vectors of growth for During the year, Puri was conferred with the
each business with greater focus on consumer-centricity, ‘AIMA - JRD TATA Corporate Leadership Award’ by
agility, resilience and inspired talent to build an even the All India Management Association (AIMA), and
more competitive, future-tech, innovative, climate positive ‘Sir Jehangir Ghandy Medal for Industrial and
and inclusive enterprise. His emphasis on purposeful Social Peace’ by XLRI Jamshedpur. In 2024, he was
and cutting-edge innovation has led to the creation of honoured with the ‘Business Leader of the Year Award’
sharp focused R&D platforms in areas aligned to market by AIMA, ‘Best CEO Award’ by Business Today, and
opportunities. Given his deep conviction that mega trends ‘Transformational Leader Award 2022-23’ by the
like Digital and Sustainability will reshape the future, Asian Centre for Corporate Governance and Sustainability;
Puri has passionately rallied the organisation to develop he also featured in the list of ‘India’s Best CEOs 2024’
capabilities and channelise investments & resources in the ‘Diversified Conglomerate’ category published by
to enhance competitiveness of existing businesses Fortune India. He has earlier been conferred with
as well as identify tech-enabled growth opportunities. the ‘IMPACT Person of the Year, 2020 Award’ by
2 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 21]
Your Directors
exchange4media, a leading online news platform, A qualified Chartered Accountant and Cost Accountant,
‘Distinguished Alumnus Award of the year 2018’ by Dutta joined ITC in November 1990. In a career spanning
the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, and was over three decades at ITC, he has held various senior
also bestowed with an Honorary Doctorate by the roles in the finance function, both at the business and
XIM University, Bhubaneshwar. corporate level. Before becoming the CFO, he held
Other Directorships the position of the Corporate Financial Controller
of the Company, and prior to that, he was
Name of the entity Position
Executive Vice President - Corporate Finance in charge
ITC Hotels Limited # Chairperson & of the Corporate Treasury, Strategic Planning and
Non-Executive Director
Corporate Planning Functions of the Company.
ITC Infotech India Limited Chairperson & He has handled various aspects of finance including
Non-Executive Director Planning, Treasury, M&A, Accounting, Taxation, IT,
Investor Relations and business strategy. He has also
ITC Infotech Limited, UK * Chairperson &
served as a Member of the World Business Council for
Non-Executive Director
Sustainable Development CFO Network.
ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. * Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director Dutta is a Member of the CII National Committee on
Financial Reporting. During the year, he was honoured
Surya Nepal Private Limited * Chairperson &
with the ‘Group CFO of the Year - Large Enterprise Award’
Non-Executive Director
at the Economic Times CFO Awards 2025.
Indian School of Business Member, Governing
Other Directorships
Board and Executive
Board Name of the entity Position
Committee Membership of other entities Russell Credit Limited Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director
Name of the entity Committee Position
ITC Integrated Business Chairperson &
ITC Hotels Limited CSR and Chairperson
Services Limited Non-Executive Director
Sustainability
Committee Gold Flake Corporation Limited Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director
Nomination and Member
Remuneration Greenacre Holdings Limited Chairperson &
Committee Non-Executive Director
ITC Hotels Limited # Non-Executive Director
ITC Infotech India Limited Non-Executive Director
S. Dutta
ITC Infotech Limited, UK * Non-Executive Director
Supratim Dutta (58), DIN: 01804345, was appointed
ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. * Non-Executive Director
as a Wholetime Director on the Board of ITC effective
July 22, 2022. He is also the Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’) Surya Nepal Private Limited * Non-Executive Director
of the Company. He is, inter alia, responsible for Finance,
WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Non-Executive Director
Accounting, Internal Audit & IT Functions and also for the
Limited *
Investment Subsidiaries of the Company.
ITC Limited 3
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 22]
Your Directors
Committee Membership of other entities B. Sumant
Name of the entity Committee Position
Sumant Bhargavan (61), DIN: 01732482, was appointed
Russell Credit Limited Audit Committee Chairperson
as a Wholetime Director on the Board of ITC effective
CSR Committee Chairperson November 16, 2018. He oversees the Paperboards,
Nomination and Member Paper and Packaging as well as the Personal Care
Remuneration and Education & Stationery Products Businesses of
Committee the Company. He also oversees the TM&D Vertical and
ITC Infotech India Audit Committee Chairperson the Central Projects Organisation. Sumant, an alumnus
Limited Nomination and Member of the National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, joined
Remuneration ITC in January 1986, and has handled a wide range of
Committee responsibilities across several businesses.
Prior to his appointment as a Director on the Board of ITC,
Sumant was President - FMCG Businesses since
H. Malik
April 2016. Earlier, he was the Divisional Chief Executive
Hemant Malik (59), DIN: 06435812, was appointed
of ITD. He also held responsibility of the TM&D Vertical
as a Wholetime Director on the Board of ITC effective
as COO from November 2014 to March 2016 and as
August 12, 2023. He is also the Divisional Chief Executive
Chief Executive for a period of one year from
of the Foods Business Division of the Company.
October 2016. He spent his first 19 years with ITC in
After completing his B.A. (Hons.) in Economics from
Manufacturing operations of the Tobacco Division and
Delhi University and M.B.A. from the Indian Institute of
has worked in four production units as well as at the
Management, Calcutta, he joined ITC in June 1989 from
the campus and has more than 35 years of experience Head Office. In October 2004, he moved to the
across multiple businesses of ITC, including Tobacco & Foods Business and set up the Snack Food category
Foods, and the TM&D Vertical. under the brand name ‘Bingo!’. He has led ITC Infotech
India Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC, as its
Prior to becoming the Divisional Chief Executive of the
Foods Business Division in October 2016, Malik was the Managing Director from September 2009 to October 2014,
Chief Executive of the TM&D Vertical from April 2016. and has been on the Boards of ITC Infotech’s
He headed the All India Tobacco Sales function in 2001. wholly owned subsidiaries in the UK and the USA.
He later assumed charge as the Head of Marketing of
Sumant has also been on the Boards of Surya Nepal
the then nascent Foods Business in April 2002, where he
Private Limited and The Tobacco Institute of India.
was instrumental in the launch and development of some
He presently serves as a Member of the CII Eastern
of the key food brands of ITC including ‘Aashirvaad’,
Region Council.
‘Sunfeast’, ‘Bingo!’, ‘YiPPee!’ and ‘Kitchens of India’.
He was then given the responsibility to set up the new Other Directorships
FMCG TM&D Vertical and was made the COO of TM&D
Name of the entity Position
in April 2008. He thereafter took over as the COO of
Cigarette Brands and Supply Chain, India Tobacco Division
ITC Fibre Innovations Chairperson &
(‘ITD’), in August 2012, and was elevated as the
Limited Non-Executive Director
Divisional Chief Executive of ITD in August 2015.
The Tollygunge Club Member,
Malik is the Chairman of the Food Processing Committee
Limited General Committee
of FICCI.
Malik does not hold directorship in any other entity. Committee Membership of other entities: Nil
4 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025