[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 81-83

[PAGE 81]
Report of the Board of Directors
helping the brand deliver long-lasting and sensorially rich nature of these challenges, TM&D continues to sharpen
offerings while fostering inclusive growth. channel-specific strategies to efficiently service consumer
demand across the country. Valuable insights of consumer
Over the years, the Business has implemented several
behaviour and channel/region specific trends gained over
measures to enhance the competitiveness of the
the years continue to be leveraged to deliver superior
agarbatti value chain in India. This includes scaling up
performance in terms of product availability, visibility and
bamboo procurement through local sources, working
freshness.
closely with manufacturers and state nodal agencies to
promote bamboo plantation and indigenous bamboo The rapid growth of Modern Trade, e-Commerce and
stick manufacturing. Mangaldeep remains at the Quick-Commerce channels, coupled with the emergence
forefront of driving bamboo stick manufacturing, enabling of several new players, has necessitated the deployment
import substitution while advancing national priorities of of tailored market/outlet specific strategies to seize the
employment generation, rural livelihood enhancement, emerging opportunities. Omni-channel presence in urban
and inclusive economic growth. markets enabled accelerated growth while shopper
marketing insights and agile supply chain capabilities
In the Safety Matches industry, the Business strengthened
were leveraged to enhance operational and execution
its market leadership position by leveraging the brand
efficiencies.
‘Homelites’ – built on differentiated positioning of stronger,
longer and karborised sticks. The Business continues to The surge in internet usage, particularly through
focus on scaling up the share of value-added products smartphones, amongst convenience-seeking consumers,
in its portfolio and enhancing supply chain efficiency by widespread adoption of digital payments, wide assortment
sourcing products manufactured closer to markets. of products and faster deliveries continue to drive the
rising salience of e-Commerce and Quick Commerce
Leveraging its world-class brands and innovative &
channels. Your Company’s collaborations with leading
superior product offerings, your Company remains
e-Commerce and Quick Commerce platforms on all
confident of scaling up its Agarbattis & Safety Matches
aspects of operations viz. category development, supply
portfolio, and strengthen its position in the segment.
chain, consumer offerings and customer acquisition
TRADE MARKETING & DISTRIBUTION has enabled it to significantly scale-up sales in these
channels. This was augmented by development of
Your Company’s Trade Marketing & Distribution (TM&D)
exclusive pack assortments, channel-specific business
vertical continues to strengthen its multi-channel
plans and ‘Digital First’ brands. Joint Business Plans
go-to-market capabilities towards ensuring effective market
executed in coordination with these platforms coupled
servicing and product availability. Proactive interventions
with agile supply chain initiatives have further fortified your
continue to be made towards addressing emerging
Company’s market standing in e-Commerce and Quick
trends such as the rapid growth of new gen channels
Commerce channels. Growth in the premium portfolio
(Modern Trade, e-Commerce, Quick-Commerce) and
was accelerated through increased visibility, focus on
increasing demand for premium products.
target cohorts and jointly curated campaigning, including
The dynamic interplay of varied and evolving consumer collaborating on topical events across accounts. Digitally
preferences, multiplicity of channels including rapid enabled sales have grown rapidly in recent years and,
acceleration in new gen channels, diverse demographic together with Modern Trade, now account for 31% of your
profiles & socio-economic factors, and a vast geographical Company’s FMCG 7 portfolio (Vs. 17% in FY 2019-20).
landscape pose a high degree of complexity for distribution
of FMCG products in India. Recognising the multifaceted 7 Excluding Education and Stationery Products
Your Company’s Trade Marketing & Distribution (TM&D) vertical continues to strengthen
its multi-channel go-to-market capabilities towards ensuring effective market servicing
and product availability. Your Company’s collaborations with leading e-Commerce and
Quick Commerce platforms on all aspects of operations viz. category development,
supply chain, consumer offerings and customer acquisition has enabled
it to significantly scale-up sales in these channels.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 63

[PAGE 82]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company’s multi-channel distribution network, which development activities and further enhancements to
facilitates availability of its products in nearly seven million the digital ecosystem for the stockist channel. These
retail outlets of which more than one-third are serviced initiatives have substantially enhanced the availability of
directly, was further strengthened during the year with the your Company’s range of products in rural markets.
addition of new markets and outlets to its direct servicing
The Food Service and Institutional channels continued to
base. Market coverage was stepped up by more than 2x of
witness robust growth during the year leveraging existing
pre-pandemic levels. TM&D’s wide and deep distribution
partnerships and your Company’s wide product range.
network and cutting-edge digital capabilities render the
Strategic partnerships unlocked new routes-to-market,
FMCG Businesses with significant competitive strength.
catering to specialised segments including ‘on-the-go’
In the General Trade channel, your Company continued consumption, direct marketing and QSRs. Customised
to demonstrate resilient performance through focused product portfolios continue to be deployed for identified
market approach and differentiated product assortment. high potential segments of railways, airports and airlines
During the year, urban markets witnessed heightened to strengthen presence in this channel.
competitive intensity from regional/local players and
TM&D remains at the forefront of leveraging cutting-edge
accelerated channel shift with the increasing salience
digital technologies and building a digital ecosystem to
of Modern Trade, e-Commerce and Quick Commerce.
draw actionable insights for sharp-focused interventions,
Automation, data-led insighting and machine-learning
augment sales force capability, drive productivity, improve
enabled solutions continue to be increasingly leveraged
market servicing and deepen connect with retailers.
to drive last mile productivity and performance across
Technology enablement in the form of customised mobility
markets. Further, emerging technologies like Generative
and routing solutions, machine learning algorithms,
AI are being increasingly leveraged to automate operations data science models, data analytics comprising insightful
and enhance efficiency. Customised servicing based on visualisation tools and predictive analytics are being
outlet potential and retail engagement programmes have increasingly leveraged to enable speedy and accurate
been deployed to stimulate demand for your Company’s data capture, enable real-time informed decision making
products with enhanced focus on premium grocery and aid in optimisation of trade & marketing inputs to
outlets. Specific interventions were undertaken to drive enhance visibility and sales. The machine learning
premiumisation in General Trade outlets with store level models have been augmented to sharpen outlet level SKU
missions led by sharper data analytics. recommendations. Use cases for self-service analytics
tools have increased to analyse data and present insights
In rural markets, your Company continued to deploy
which are digitally integrated into business decisions,
market-specific interventions to enhance direct coverage
resulting in intelligent digitalisation of business processes.
on the basis of socio-economic indicators and market
potential. This has been supported through a hub and The digitally powered eB2B platform of your Company,
spoke distribution model with the continued expansion of UNNATI, has been rapidly scaled up during the year,
rural stockists network to 1.4x over the last three years. covering nearly eight lakh outlets. UNNATI facilitates
Leveraging the synergies arising out of the deep rural sharp and direct engagement with retailers, superior
connect of your Company’s Agri Business, extensive analytics, personalised recommendations of hyperlocal
consumer activations were undertaken in high potential baskets based on consumer purchase insights, and
rural areas during the year aided by concerted market deeper brand engagement.
Your Company’s multi-channel distribution network, which facilitates availability of its
products in nearly seven million retail outlets of which more than one-third are serviced directly,
was further strengthened during the year. Market coverage was stepped up by
more than 2x of pre-pandemic levels. TM&D’s wide and deep distribution network and
cutting-edge digital capabilities render the FMCG Businesses with
significant competitive strength.
64 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 83]
Report of the Board of Directors
To cater to the digital payments and financing needs of Manufacturers (OEMs) and fleet aggregators facilitated
customers and retailers, your Company has entered into adoption of Electrical Vehicles (EV) in TM&D operations.
strategic collaborations with banks and Fintech partners. The number of EV trips increased by 3x over the
These solutions have been seamlessly integrated with previous year.
the UNNATI platform to digitally empower and unlock
TM&D’s distribution highway is a source of sustainable
business growth for your Company’s trade partners.
competitive advantage for your Company’s FMCG
The scale and diversity of your Company’s distribution Businesses and is well-positioned to support the rapid
network remains pivotal in enhancing market presence, scale-up of operations in the ensuing years leveraging
gaining valuable insights into consumer & trade behaviour its best-in-class systems and processes, an agile and
and facilitating the execution of product launches responsive supply chain, and a synergistic relationship
across geographies. In order to effectively leverage new with its channel partners.
routes-to-markets and meet the assortment needs of
PAPERBOARDS, PAPER AND PACKAGING
new gen channels, your Company executed over
100 new product launches across target markets besides Paperboards & Specialty Papers
extending the availability of several existing products
After achieving record highs in FY 2022-23, the domestic
in the portfolio.
industry has faced significant challenges over the past two
Several interventions were undertaken by TM&D during years. The industry contended with a difficult operating
the year to drive structural improvement in operational environment, characterised by low-priced supplies of
effectiveness and productivity. During the year, your paperboards and paper from China and Indonesia in
Company continued to leverage the integrated planning global markets, including India, as well as weak demand
and supply chain tool, powered by best-in-class algorithms conditions, resulting in subdued realisations.
for inventory optimisation and productivity enhancement On the inputs front, wood prices witnessed sharp
to significantly improve supply chain agility and market escalation during the year, with wood availability and
servicing through enhanced forecast accuracy. The quality being significantly sub-optimal on account of
supply chain network was redesigned to enhance the lower plantations during the pandemic period and higher
premium portfolio availability both in existing and target demand from competing Wood Based Industries (WBI).
markets across urban and rural markets. TM&D continues
The cumulative impact of subdued realisations, excess
to augment warehousing infrastructure leveraging
supply in domestic markets led by unprecedented
cutting-edge technologies to cater to the growing scale of
increase in low-priced imports into India from China,
your Company’s FMCG Businesses.
Indonesia etc., sharp surge in wood costs, and
In line with your Company’s commitment to the currency-led volatility exerted pressure on margins during
‘Triple Bottom Line’, TM&D continued to focus its efforts the year. The Business was able to partially mitigate
for adoption of renewable energy sources in its operations. the impact of these challenges by leveraging structural
As part of your Company’s Sustainability 2.0 agenda, advantages of the integrated business model, stepped-up
TM&D is rapidly expanding its Green Logistics efforts for end-user engagements, Digital interventions and
mid mile and last mile deliveries in key cities across the increase in salience of exports and Plastic substitution
country. Collaborations with multiple Original Equipment (PlaSub) products.
As part of your Company’s Sustainability 2.0 agenda, TM&D is rapidly expanding its
Green Logistics efforts for mid mile and last mile deliveries in key cities across the country.
Collaborations with multiple Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and fleet aggregators
facilitated adoption of Electrical Vehicles (EV) in TM&D operations. The number of
EV trips increased by 3x over the previous year.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 65