[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 94-96

[PAGE 94]
Report of the Board of Directors
partnerships in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh with https://www.itcportal.com/material-subsidiary-policy.
Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR). Presently, your Company does not have any material
subsidiary.
Driving the transformation towards NextGen Agriculture,
your Company has significantly accelerated digital
Surya Nepal Private Limited
adoption across the Agri landscape, empowering farmers
Nepal’s GDP grew by 3.7% during the fiscal year ended
with advanced, tech-enabled solutions. At the forefront is
July 2024, on a low base of 2% in the previous year, led
your Company’s ‘phygital’ innovation ITCMAARS which
mainly by uptick in agriculture, hydro power and tourism
delivers hyperlocal, personalised recommendations at
sectors. However, growth in the Nepalese economy
scale through predictive advisory models powered by
continues to be challenging amidst subdued economic
IoT and data analytics. This integrated ecosystem has the
activities resulting from weak consumer demand and
potential to unlock several evolving opportunities that can
sluggish private and public sector investments.
help reimagine the future of the agri sector and propel the
The economy saw a modest recovery this fiscal year with
Business to create new and scalable revenue streams,
an accommodative monetary policy and consumer price
whilst also benefitting farmers.
inflation moderating to 4.6% for the first 9 months of the
To further enhance rural livelihoods, your Company’s fiscal year as compared to 5.9% in the previous year.
focus on Value-Added Agri Products (VAAP) and crop Inward remittances, which significantly contribute to
diversification is catalysing a shift from conventional economic growth, stand at appx. 25% of the national GDP,
production-centric models to demand-driven, value-rich grew by 10.0% in the first 9 months, albeit at a slower
agri-value chains. Strategic investments in state-of-the-art pace than the previous year. Strong inward remittances,
export infrastructure are linking Indian farmers to global low interest rates and moderate inflation are expected
markets, driving growth and inclusivity. to lead to gradual recovery in private consumption and
consumer demand.
Through a wide spectrum of initiatives including
The Government of Nepal has recently introduced several
climate-resilient farming, natural resource management,
reforms to enhance investments, strengthen governance,
competitive value chain development, cutting-edge
public service delivery, ease of doing business etc.,
digital interventions and robust market linkages,
which are steps in the right direction. Further measures
your Company is enabling Indian agriculture to scale new
aimed at encouraging domestic and foreign investments,
horizons while advancing national priorities and delivering
incentivising the manufacturing sector to enable import
sustainable impact.
substitution and job creation, supporting the hospitality
sector with its large economic multiplier effect, on-ground
NOTES ON SUBSIDIARIES
implementation of reforms and promulgation of
The following may be read in conjunction with the industry-friendly policies remain key imperatives for
Consolidated Financial Statements of your Company achieving sustained economic growth.
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standard 110.
The legal cigarette industry provides livelihoods to over
Shareholders desirous of obtaining the Report and
five lakh individuals involved in tobacco cultivation,
Accounts of your Company’s subsidiaries may obtain the
manufacturing & trade and makes a significant contribution
same upon request. Further, the Report and Accounts
to the revenue collection of the Government of Nepal.
of the subsidiary companies is also available under the
Despite its far-reaching economic impact, the legal
‘Investor Relations’ section of your Company’s website,
cigarette industry continues to face significant challenges
www.itcportal.com, in a downloadable format. Your from an increasingly punitive and discriminatory taxation
Company’s Policy for determination of a material subsidiary, and regulatory regime. The company continues to
as adopted by your Board, in conformity with Regulation 16 engage with policy makers for equitable, pragmatic,
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing evidence-based regulations and taxation policies that
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, balance the economic imperatives of the country and
can be accessed on your Company’s corporate website at tobacco control objectives.
76 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 95]
Report of the Board of Directors
The company demonstrated resilient performance CSR policy, the company carried out initiatives under
during the year despite subdued consumer demand. four distinct CSR Platforms, namely, Surya Nepal Asha,
The Cigarettes business reinforced its market standing by Surya Nepal Prakriti, Surya Nepal Adharshila and
leveraging its robust portfolio, superior product quality and Surya Nepal Gatha during the year. Key interventions
wide distribution network. A differentiated and innovative include:
offering under ‘Surya Fusion’ brand was launched
providing assistance to farmers in areas proximal to
during the year, which further fortified the company’s –
the company’s operations,
product portfolio.
creation of agri-infrastructure such as vermicompost
The company’s manufacturing systems continued to –
set new benchmarks in responsiveness, quality and pits, harvesting sheds etc.,
productivity. Various initiatives, such as the manufacture
providing training to improve productivity and
–
of new product formats, and process automation were
enhance income generation for farmers through
implemented during the year. Relentless focus on
animal husbandry,
developing world-class products anchored on innovation
and benchmarked to international quality standards – improvement in the quality of education in public
remain the key sources of sustainable competitive schools in the vicinity of the company’s operating
advantage for the company. locations,
During the year, the company leveraged its distribution development of public infrastructure in the catchment
–
reach to scale up availability of ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy areas of operating locations,
Choco Fills’ biscuits, which had been launched in the
assistance in various environment preservation
previous year. Focused investments towards brand –
measures like urban plantation and preservation of
building supplemented the distribution scale up and
biodiversity,
enabled the brand to achieve premium positioning in the
market. ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy Mocha Fills’, launched support in organising the largest Nepali literature
–
during the year, also elicited positive consumer response. festival and assistance in promotion and revival of
the local Nepali folk musical instrument – ‘Sarangi’
In the Confectionery business, the company augmented
its product range through new launches such as through various training programs and workshops.
‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy Choco Rolls’, ‘Toffichoo Coffee Delite’
During the year, the company recorded Revenue
and ‘Minto Honey Lemon Ginger’. Focused investments
from Operations of NRs. 5293 crores (previous year
continue to be made towards enhancing market
NRs. 4979 crores) and Net Profit of NRs. 1172 crores
standing. Capacity utilisation at the company’s
(previous year NRs. 1118 crores) on a consolidated basis.
state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Biratnagar is also
being progressively ramped up. The company declared a dividend of NRs. 273 per equity
share of NRs. 50 9 each for the year ended 15th July, 2024
The company’s wholly owned subsidiary,
(31st Asadh, 2081), amounting to NRs. 1101 crores
Surya Nepal Ventures Private Limited, engaged in
(previous year NRs. 563 per equity share of NRs. 100 each
manufacturing and sales of agarbattis, continued to
amounting to NRs. 1135 crores).
strengthen its market standing leveraging its differentiated
product portfolio, sharply focused marketing investments The company continues to be one of the largest contributors
and best-in-class product availability across target to the exchequer in Nepal and is well-positioned
markets. The company entered the dhoop segment under
to consolidate its leadership position by leveraging its
the ‘Mangaldeep’ brand during the year. The product
robust portfolio of products, deep & wide distribution
range has received encouraging consumer response.
network, best-in-class manufacturing facilities and
The company continues to make multi-dimensional
9 One Ordinary equity share of the company having face value of NRs 100/- was
contributions towards building the societal and economic
sub-divided to 2 Ordinary equity shares having face value of NRs. 50/- each
capital of Nepal. In line with applicable regulations and during the year.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 77

[PAGE 96]
Report of the Board of Directors
execution excellence. The company continues to explore Towards enhancing its Cloud service capabilities,
opportunities to rapidly scale-up the newer FMCG the company acquired Blazeclan Technologies Private
businesses and evaluate emerging opportunities in Limited (Blazeclan), a leading Cloud consulting firm,
this space. during the year. Blazeclan has well-established
capabilities in Cloud transformation, with expertise
ITC Infotech India Limited and its subsidiaries in Cloud Migration, Digital Services, Digital Cloud
Consulting and Data Analytics & Insights across AWS,
The global IT industry continued to be impacted
Azure and GCP platforms. The company has created a
by heightened uncertainty and volatility in the
new ‘Cloud services’ line combining cloud professionals
macro-economic environment, exacerbated by
from both companies to provide high quality, scalable and
geo-political dynamics. As per NASSCOM estimates, the
secure cloud solutions and assist clients in their digital
Indian IT Services industry grew by 4.3% in FY 2024-25 modernisation and transformation journeys.
led by AI, cloud-native technologies and cybersecurity
The company’s investments in building technology-led
services.
solutions and offerings in future-focused areas were
Against the backdrop of subdued industry growth, acknowledged in global benchmarking reports by leading
the company delivered robust performance with analyst firms. During the year, the company was recognised
consolidated revenues growing by 13.8% over the as ‘Disruptor’ across several Avasant RadarView™
service provider benchmarking reports, including
previous year. The company remained aligned with the
‘Digital CX Services’, ‘Data Management and Advanced
changing business priorities of its customers and achieved
Analytics’, ‘End-user Computing’, ‘Digital Workplace’,
strong growth in key customer accounts by collaborating
‘Intelligent Automation’ and ‘Travel, Transportation &
in their development and transformation initiatives.
Hospitality Digital Services’. The company was
Clients are increasingly seeking strategic partners to
recognised as ‘Rising Star’ in the ‘Data Modernisation
streamline their portfolio of services and enhance cost
Services-Midsize’ and ‘Advanced BI & Reporting
efficiencies. The company continues to effectively address
Modernisation-Midsize’ quadrant in ISG provider lens™
such requirements by leveraging its integrated global
research report on Advanced Analytics and AI services.
service delivery structure and strengthening operational
Attracting, training and retaining high-quality talent,
efficiencies through a structured delivery excellence
particularly in niche and future-focused technologies
framework, employing a metrics-driven approach.
remain a key priority for the company to succeed in the
The company continues to invest in institutionalising global IT Services industry. The company continues to
delivery excellence and building future-ready capabilities foster an employee-centric and high-performance work
in key focus areas. During the year, the company formed culture driving holistic well-being and growth as part of its
a Technology Center of Excellence (CoE) in Bengaluru to comprehensive employee value proposition. Leadership
strength continues to be built through curated leadership
serve as an incubation centre to build capabilities in next
development programs and strengthen employee
generation technologies, and a state-of-the-art Global AI
competencies through domain & technology-led training
Centre of Excellence in Kolkata to develop cutting-edge
and career development programs. The company has
solutions. The company has also invested in building its
initiated an extensive AI training programme covering over
AI capabilities and created GenAI powered platforms &
9,000 employees to create an AI-proficient workforce.
accelerators, offering unique proposition to clients.
During the year, the company’s consolidated Revenue
In recent years the company has focused on building
from Operations stood at ` 4244.83 crores (previous
offerings and creating assets around capabilities like
year ` 3730.23 crores). Net Profit for the year was
‘CIO 360 - Run the Business’ platform, Hotels-in-a-Box ` 449.82 crores (previous year ` 463.13 crores) after
and Digital Manufacturing, S4/HANA, Digital Workplace, considering costs related to the Blazeclan acquisition,
Hyper Automation, Adobe D2C, ServiceNow and and investments towards business growth and
Cybersecurity. capability building.
78 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025