[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 96-98

[PAGE 96]
Report of the Board of Directors
execution excellence. The company continues to explore Towards enhancing its Cloud service capabilities,
opportunities to rapidly scale-up the newer FMCG the company acquired Blazeclan Technologies Private
businesses and evaluate emerging opportunities in Limited (Blazeclan), a leading Cloud consulting firm,
this space. during the year. Blazeclan has well-established
capabilities in Cloud transformation, with expertise
ITC Infotech India Limited and its subsidiaries in Cloud Migration, Digital Services, Digital Cloud
Consulting and Data Analytics & Insights across AWS,
The global IT industry continued to be impacted
Azure and GCP platforms. The company has created a
by heightened uncertainty and volatility in the
new ‘Cloud services’ line combining cloud professionals
macro-economic environment, exacerbated by
from both companies to provide high quality, scalable and
geo-political dynamics. As per NASSCOM estimates, the
secure cloud solutions and assist clients in their digital
Indian IT Services industry grew by 4.3% in FY 2024-25 modernisation and transformation journeys.
led by AI, cloud-native technologies and cybersecurity
The company’s investments in building technology-led
services.
solutions and offerings in future-focused areas were
Against the backdrop of subdued industry growth, acknowledged in global benchmarking reports by leading
the company delivered robust performance with analyst firms. During the year, the company was recognised
consolidated revenues growing by 13.8% over the as ‘Disruptor’ across several Avasant RadarView™
service provider benchmarking reports, including
previous year. The company remained aligned with the
‘Digital CX Services’, ‘Data Management and Advanced
changing business priorities of its customers and achieved
Analytics’, ‘End-user Computing’, ‘Digital Workplace’,
strong growth in key customer accounts by collaborating
‘Intelligent Automation’ and ‘Travel, Transportation &
in their development and transformation initiatives.
Hospitality Digital Services’. The company was
Clients are increasingly seeking strategic partners to
recognised as ‘Rising Star’ in the ‘Data Modernisation
streamline their portfolio of services and enhance cost
Services-Midsize’ and ‘Advanced BI & Reporting
efficiencies. The company continues to effectively address
Modernisation-Midsize’ quadrant in ISG provider lens™
such requirements by leveraging its integrated global
research report on Advanced Analytics and AI services.
service delivery structure and strengthening operational
Attracting, training and retaining high-quality talent,
efficiencies through a structured delivery excellence
particularly in niche and future-focused technologies
framework, employing a metrics-driven approach.
remain a key priority for the company to succeed in the
The company continues to invest in institutionalising global IT Services industry. The company continues to
delivery excellence and building future-ready capabilities foster an employee-centric and high-performance work
in key focus areas. During the year, the company formed culture driving holistic well-being and growth as part of its
a Technology Center of Excellence (CoE) in Bengaluru to comprehensive employee value proposition. Leadership
strength continues to be built through curated leadership
serve as an incubation centre to build capabilities in next
development programs and strengthen employee
generation technologies, and a state-of-the-art Global AI
competencies through domain & technology-led training
Centre of Excellence in Kolkata to develop cutting-edge
and career development programs. The company has
solutions. The company has also invested in building its
initiated an extensive AI training programme covering over
AI capabilities and created GenAI powered platforms &
9,000 employees to create an AI-proficient workforce.
accelerators, offering unique proposition to clients.
During the year, the company’s consolidated Revenue
In recent years the company has focused on building
from Operations stood at ` 4244.83 crores (previous
offerings and creating assets around capabilities like
year ` 3730.23 crores). Net Profit for the year was
‘CIO 360 - Run the Business’ platform, Hotels-in-a-Box ` 449.82 crores (previous year ` 463.13 crores) after
and Digital Manufacturing, S4/HANA, Digital Workplace, considering costs related to the Blazeclan acquisition,
Hyper Automation, Adobe D2C, ServiceNow and and investments towards business growth and
Cybersecurity. capability building.
78 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 97]
Report of the Board of Directors
For the year under review: are planned towards building a robust talent supply
chain with focus on employee-centricity and fostering a
a. ITC Infotech India Limited recorded Revenue from
high-performance culture.
Operations of ` 3204.32 crores (previous year
` 2869.29 crores) and Net Profit of ` 466.62 crores The company is well poised to craft the next horizon of
(previous year ` 382.21 crores). The company growth in the years ahead driven by focused strategies
paid a total dividend of ` 53.75 per Equity Share of to identify go to market opportunities, building capabilities
` 10/- each aggregating ` 488.32 crores (previous year through platforms and offerings and capacity building to
` 55.50 per Equity Share of ` 10/- each aggregating drive scale.
` 488.40 crores).
Technico Agri Sciences Limited
b. ITC Infotech Limited, UK, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the company, recorded Revenue of GBP 28.80 million During the year under review, potato production in India
(previous year GBP 34.11 million) and Net Profit of stood at 57 million MT, representing a decline of 5% over
GBP 1.33 million (previous year GBP 1.49 million). the previous year. Lower potato production resulted in a
significant rise in potato prices during the year.
c. ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the company, together with its wholly-owned Leveraging its institutional strengths and strong brand
subsidiary Indivate Inc., recorded Revenue of value, the company continued to enhance its market
US$ 160.71 million (previous year US$ 158.58 million) standing by entering new potato growing markets and
and Net Profit of US$ 6.53 million (previous year expanding presence in existing ones. The company’s
US$ 6.69 million). second greenhouse facility, located at Panchkula, was
commissioned during the year to augment capacity and
d. In the recent past, ITC Infotech India Limited has
service the growing demand from institutional customers.
also set up subsidiary companies in Brazil, Mexico,
France, Germany, Italy, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia. The company’s leadership in production of early generation
Please refer to Form AOC-1 (Statement containing seed potatoes and strength in agronomy continue
salient features of the financial statements of to support the ‘Bingo!’ range of potato chips of your
Subsidiaries / Associate companies / Joint Ventures), Company and in servicing the seed potato requirements
forming part of the Report and Accounts, for details of the farmer base of your Company’s Agri Business.
on financial performance of these companies.
The company’s Revenue from Operations stood at
e. The consolidated results of the company include ` 383.68 crores (previous year ` 323.95 crores) with
Revenue of ` 98.43 crores and Net Loss of Net Profit of ` 83.76 crores (previous year ` 37.81 crores).
` 3.38 crores recorded by Blazeclan Technologies Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at
Private Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries ` 83.71 crores (previous year ` 37.82 crores).
post 1st October, 2024, i.e. the date of acquisition.
The company continues to leverage its deep domain
Consequent to the acquisition, 10 wholly owned
expertise, strengthen relationships with global seed
subsidiaries of Blazeclan across several countries
breeders and farmers to introduce high yield and climate
including Singapore, Australia, Malaysia, Belgium,
resilient seed varieties to fortify its leadership position in
New Zealand, USA, Canada and Philippines have
the seed potato industry.
become step down subsidiaries of the company.
Technico Pty Limited and its subsidiaries
Going forward, ITC Infotech seeks to augment its portfolio
of technology offerings across select industry verticals, The company continues to focus on upgradation
develop new platforms & accelerators and strengthen its and commercialisation of its TECHNITUBER ® Seed
alliance ecosystem through partnerships with hyperscalers Technology and customising the agronomy practices
and platform providers in identified capability areas such for deployment across various geographies. Further,
as GenAI, Digital, Data & Analytics, Cloud, Infrastructure the company is also engaged in the marketing of
Services and ERP Systems. Strategic interventions TECHNITUBER ® seed produced at the facilities of its
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 79

[PAGE 98]
Report of the Board of Directors
subsidiary in China and Technico Agri Sciences Limited, The company’s Revenue from Operations for the year
India, a wholly-owned subsidiary of your Company, to stood at ` 158.87 crores (previous year ` 154.07 crores),
global customers. For the year under review: while Net Profit for the year was ` 13.63 crores (previous
year ` 14.90 crores). Total Comprehensive Income
a. Technico Pty Limited, Australia registered a turnover
for the year stood at ` 13.60 crores (previous year
of Australian Dollars (A$) 2.86 million (previous year
` 14.89 crores).
A$ 1.69 million) and a Net Profit of A$ 1.51 million
(previous year A$ 0.81 million). For FY 2024-25, the Board of Directors of the company
has recommended a final dividend of ` 2.00 per
b. Technico Technologies Inc., Canada has wound
equity share of ` 10 each, aggregating ` 14.60 crores
down its seed business operations and is exploring
(previous year final dividend of ` 2.00 per equity share of
other business opportunities in Canada.
` 10 each, aggregating ` 14.60 crores).
c. Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited, Australia, and
Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited, China –
ITC IndiVision Limited
there were no significant events to report with respect
The company is engaged in manufacture and export
to the above companies.
of nicotine and nicotine derivative products. The
Wimco Limited company’s manufacturing facility, situated near Mysuru
has the capability to produce purest nicotine derivatives
The company’s business activities comprise fabrication
conforming to US and EU pharmacopoeia standards.
and assembly of machinery for tube filling, cartoning,
The company undertook extensive product development
wrapping, material handling including conveyor
initiatives, customer trials and business development
solutions and engineering services for the FMCG and
efforts and is well poised to rapidly scale up business
Pharmaceutical industries.
going forward.
During the year, the company monetised the value
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of
of certain identified assets relating to the engineering
` 10.51 crores (previous year ` 1.19 crores) and Net Loss
business thereby strengthening its Balance Sheet.
of ` 55.56 crores (previous year loss of ` 31.12 crores),
The company’s Revenue from Operations for the year
primarily on account of gestation costs and depreciation.
stood at ` 2.60 crores (previous year: ` 3.47 crores)
with a Net Profit of ` 1.45 crores (previous year loss of ITC Fibre Innovations Limited (IFIL)
` 1.88 crores). Total Comprehensive Income for the year
The company manufactures Moulded Fibre Products
stood at ` 1.45 crores (previous year (-) `1.93 crores).
made from renewable natural fibres such as wood and
offers sustainable solutions across industries including
North East Nutrients Private Limited
food service & delivery, FMCG and electronics.
Your Company holds 76% equity stake in North East
Nutrients Private Limited, which has set up a food Commercial production at the company’s state-of-the-art
processing facility in Mangaldoi, Assam, to cater to the manufacturing facility at Badiyakhedi, Madhya Pradesh
biscuits market in Assam and other north-eastern states. commenced in March 2024.
The company continues to focus on consistently improving During the year, the company obtained multiple
operational efficiency and productivity. In recognition of certifications affirming that its products are food contact
its high standards of quality, the company received three safe and environment friendly and conform with the
Gold Awards at the Convention on Quality Concepts 2024, requirements under US Food and Drug Administration,
organised by the Quality Circle Forum of India, German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment and Indian
Durgapur Chapter. The company also received one FSSAI regulations. These certifications enable IFIL
Gold and one Silver Award at the National POKA-YOKE to differentiate its offerings with both domestic and
competition and a Silver Award in the FACE Food Safety international customers. The commercial sales were
& Quality Kaizen Competition, 2024 organised by CII. scaled up during the year post extensive product
80 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025