[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 86-88

[PAGE 86]
Report of the Board of Directors
crop monitoring & advisory, and computer vision-based In line with the objective of enhancing the share of
solutions to improve workforce safety. The Business renewable energy in its operations, the Business has
continues to collaborate with partners from the start-up implemented several initiatives including investments in a
green boiler, high efficiency circulating fluidised bed boiler,
ecosystem, as well as established solution providers,
solar & wind energy and increased usage of bio-fuel.
in building scalable solutions that are custom fit to business
The recently commissioned state-of-the-art and
requirements. The Business’ Digital App Suite has more
future-ready High Pressure Recovery Boiler at the
than forty applications across themes of automated data
Bhadrachalam mill is progressively enhancing energy
reporting, image and video analytics, intelligent root
efficiency and reducing the carbon footprint of the unit’s
cause analysis, smart simulation, numerical optimisation,
operations by significantly lowering coal consumption
advanced AI models, low-code/no-code applications,
by appx. 25%. These investments are a testament
process digital twins, etc. The Business was the Global
to your Company’s commitment towards embedding
winner at the BRICS Industrial Innovation Contest under sustainability in its operations and supporting the
the theme of ‘Intelligent Manufacturing using AI/ML’ and ‘Make in India’ initiative. With these initiatives, renewable
the Asia-Pacific Regional winner at the Gartner’s Eye for sources presently account for more than 50% of
Innovation Awards under the categories of ‘Advanced total energy consumed at the four manufacturing units
Manufacturing’, and ‘Energy, Power and Utilities’. of the Business.
The Business continues to strengthen its safety
The Business also embarked upon a Supply Chain
management processes, adopt globally recognised
Transformation Project ‘OJAS’, establishing a dedicated
best practices and ensure that facilities are designed,
supply chain vertical to enhance customer service and realise
constructed, operated and maintained in an inherently safe
value from supply chain optimisation. This initiative has
manner. Business continues to deploy various measures
led to significant improvements in On-Time-In-Full (OTIF),
including the use of Data Analytics Tools to identify risk
reductions in Order to Delivery Time (ODLT), and other
prone areas for proactive mitigation of incidents, video
customer service delivery metrics.
analytics, digitally enabled systems such as Mobile based
The Business has adopted the principles of app, ‘Gensuite’, etc.
Total Productive Maintenance (TPM), Lean and The manufacturing facilities at Bhadrachalam, Kovai,
Six Sigma for over a decade and continues to reap Tribeni and Bollaram continue to receive industry
substantial benefits through several Business Excellence recognition for their green credentials and safety
initiatives. standards in line with the focus on sustainable business
practices. The Bhadrachalam unit is the first pulp & paper
All manufacturing units of the Business continue to
plant and the second in the country overall, to be rated
recycle nearly 100% of the solid waste generated during
‘GreenCo Platinum+’ by CII, as part of the Green Company
operations by converting the same into lime, fly ash
rating system. The Kovai unit has also been rated
bricks, cement, grey boards, egg trays etc. In addition,
GreenCo Platinum+ by CII. The Kovai unit is the
the Business recycled around 1.1 lakh tonnes of waste first site in India and the first paper mill in the world to
paper during the year, thereby sustaining positive solid achieve the highest platinum rating under the ‘Alliance
waste recycling footprint of the Business. for Water Stewardship Standards’. Bhadrachalam unit
The recently commissioned state-of-the-art and future-ready High Pressure Recovery Boiler
at the Bhadrachalam mill is progressively enhancing energy efficiency and reducing the
carbon footprint of the unit’s operations by significantly lowering coal consumption by appx. 25%.
These investments are a testament to your Company’s commitment towards embedding
sustainability in its operations and supporting the ‘Make in India’ initiative.
68 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 87]
Report of the Board of Directors
also received Alliance for Water Stewardship Platinum Over the years, your Company has continued to lay
certification. Bhadrachalam mill was also awarded the thrust on structural interventions to provide sustainable
‘Excellent Energy Efficient unit’ at National Awards for competitive advantage across the value chain with
Energy Management, 2024. The Kovai Unit was awarded significant structural cost savings and enhanced
for Excellence in water Management, 2024, under the productivity across all key operating nodes to enhance the
’Beyond the Fence’ category.
margin profile of its portfolio.
With structural drivers of demand in the Indian economy
The integrated nature of your Company’s business
remaining strong over the medium term, paperboards
model - comprising access to high-quality, cost competitive
demand is expected to remain robust. Enabling
and renewable fibre supply chain, continued development
factors include India’s emerging demographic trends,
of high yielding and disease-resistant clonal saplings,
urbanisation, rising middle class, continued substitution
enhancing energy efficiency, continuous improvement
of plastic with greener alternatives and India emerging as
through product & process innovation, in-house pulp
the Global manufacturing hub. End-user segments such
manufacturing capability, imported pulp substitution,
as Pharmaceuticals, Apparel, QSR, FMCG, consumer
world-class product quality, state-of-the-art manufacturing
durables and e-Commerce are projected to register strong
facilities, increasing usage of data analytics and
growth. Writing & Printing paper demand is also expected
Industry 4.0 technologies along with robust forward
to remain firm on the back of demand from the publishing
linkages with the Education and Stationery Products
and notebooks industries driven by the Government’s
Business and the Packaging and Printing Business - is a
thrust on primary and secondary education.
key source of competitive advantage for your Company’s
While cheap imports from China as well as from ASEAN
Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business. Your Company
countries remain a potential threat in the short run, the
is confident of further consolidating its leadership position
Business remains confident of leveraging its competitive
in the Indian Paper and Paperboards industry leveraging
strengths to mitigate the impact thereof. Representations
recent investments in innovation platforms anchored on
continue to be made at appropriate forums for suitable
the development of sustainable products and cutting-edge
measures to safeguard domestic industry. Directorate
digital technologies to set new benchmarks in customer
General of Trade Remedies (DGTR), Ministry of
satisfaction, operational excellence, and sustainability.
Commerce and Industry, India has also initiated an
Anti-Dumping investigation on Virgin Paperboard
Packaging and Printing
originating from China and Chile. Indian Paper
Manufacturers Association (IPMA), National Industry Your Company’s Packaging and Printing Business
body has also approached Ministry of Commerce for is a leading provider of value-added, differentiated
considering imposition of Minimum Import Price (MIP) on and innovative packaging solutions leveraging its
import of paperboards into India. comprehensive capability-set spanning multiple
technology platforms for cartons and laminates,
Your Company continues to engage with policy makers
to address key industry challenges including increasing supported by in-house cylinder making and blown film
wood availability through collaborative public-private manufacturing lines. The recent capacity addition at
plantation models to strengthen the competitiveness of Nadiad, Gujarat, with state-of-the-art equipment to cater
domestic industry and arrest the rapid increase of low to markets in the Western region, has further augmented
priced imports of paper & paperboard into the country. the Business’ capabilities in Cartons packaging. Capacity
Your Company’s Packaging and Printing Business is a leading provider
of value-added, differentiated and innovative packaging solutions leveraging its
comprehensive capability-set spanning multiple technology platforms for cartons and
laminates, supported by in-house cylinder making and blown film manufacturing lines.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 69

[PAGE 88]
Report of the Board of Directors
utilisation at the facility was progressively ramped up The Business has consistently demonstrated execution
during the year. excellence vis-à-vis key operational parameters by
implementing various operational excellence tools and
The Business caters to the packaging requirements of
projects. These initiatives focus on improving efficiency,
leading players across several industry segments viz.
reducing waste, and enhancing quality, supported by
Food & Beverage, Personal Care, Home Care, Footwear,
employee skill development. The Business amplified
Consumer Electronics & Electricals, QSR, Pharma,
and sustained these benefits through deployment of
Liquor and Tobacco. The Business continues to be
new-age Industry 4.0 technologies and digital facilitation
acknowledged as a ‘first choice packaging partner’ by
by establishing a core foundation of IT-OT integration
several reputed FMCG companies in the country for
across all units.
providing superior and cost-effective packaging solutions.
During the year, the Business received the prestigious
The Business also provides strategic support to your
WorldStar and AsiaStar awards in the categories of
Company’s FMCG Businesses and Cigarettes Business
pack premiumisation and sustainability. The Business
by facilitating faster turnaround for new launches,
also received several national level awards such as the
innovative & sustainable packaging solutions, design
IFCA Star Award and SIES SOP Star Award for
changes and ensuring security of supplies.
its excellence in Packaging. The Business was
Amidst sluggish consumer demand and heightened also recognised as the Packaging Company of the
competitive intensity in the packaging and printing industry, Year 2024 - Folding Cartons (Large Volumes) & Packaging
the Business continues to aggressively pursue new Convertor of the Year 2024 (Foods & Beverages)
business development across various segments. During by PrintWeek.
the year, the Business acquired several key accounts,
All four units of the Business are certified under
creating a sound base for robust growth going forward.
the Integrated Management System, consisting of
The Business continues to craft innovative packaging ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018.
solutions leveraging its deep understanding of Cartons Packaging lines at Tiruvottiyur and Haridwar
end-user needs and the capabilities of your Company’s units received the ‘Grade A’ and the Nadiad unit received
Life Sciences and Technology Centre. The Business ‘Grade AA’ - Brand Reputation Compliance Global
further scaled up the flagship ‘InnovPack’ campaign Standards (BRCGS) certifications for global standards in
targeting specific end-use segments with potential for packaging materials, a key accreditation for supplies to
rapid adoption of sustainable packaging and plastic the packaged foods industry. All key units of the Business
substitution solutions. Along with a pipeline of solutions have Sedex certifications for social ethical compliances;
developed through molecular science research, such as with the Business also receiving the Ecovadis Bronze
‘Bioseal’ (compostable coating to replace plastics), certification for sustainability performance.
‘Oxyblock’ (recyclable coating solution to enhance barrier Notwithstanding the recent headwinds in the sector, the
properties in packaging) and ‘Germ free coating’ (solution Indian packaging industry is positioned for significant
for microbial free packaging surface addressing the growth in the near term, considering the low per capita
consumer consciousness towards hygiene and safety), packaging consumption of appx. 10 kgs per annum
the Business continued to focus on developing several in India as against per capita consumption of
innovative solutions towards ‘Reducing, Reusing and 60 to 100 kgs per annum in Advanced Economies.
Recycling’ of plastic substrates; these are under various Demand for consumer linked packaging in India is
stages of commercialisation. expected to be further benefited by rising affluence,
Your Company’s Packaging and Printing Business further scaled up
the flagship ‘InnovPack’ campaign targeting specific end-use segments with
potential for rapid adoption of sustainable packaging and
plastic substitution solutions.
70 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025