[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 73-75

[PAGE 73]
Report of the Board of Directors
clutter-breaking campaigns during the year. exciting on-pack consumer offer with attractive prizes;
The Dark Fantasy brand, synonymous with the campaign was well received with over 13 million
turning everyday moments into extraordinary entries.
experiences, launched its ‘Big Fantasies’ campaign
– YiPPee! sustained its position as a strong No. 2 brand
leveraging cutting edge technology to deliver
in the Instant Noodles segment amidst heightened
fantastical experiences to consumers on ground.
competitive intensity. The Business continued to
Mom’s Magic further strengthened its core philosophy
strengthen its portfolio through a combination of
of ‘Iss Dil Ke Aage Sabki Har Hain’ with the launch
product laddering across multiple price points, wider
of the ‘Will of Change’ digital campaign which puts
assortment to cater to diverse consumer cohorts
a spotlight on the deep-seated societal bias that
and scale up of differentiated offerings. The portfolio
denies daughters their inheritance rights and
was further augmented with the launch of 2 exciting
advocates a shift towards equality, with mothers as
flavours in the Korean Noodles segment. Further,
the pillars of change.
the brand also forayed into Pasta Masala segment in
– ‘Bingo!’ Snacks delivered resilient performance during 2 flavours – Masala and Cheese. The brand refreshed
the year and strengthened its product portfolio with its communication outreach with popular Indian
the launch of exciting variants of snacks/namkeens. cricketers Jasprit Bumrah, Surya Kumar Yadav
During the year, Bingo! forayed into the Popped Chips and Rahul Dravid as celebrity brand endorsers.
segment with the launch of three exciting Investments in several high decibel campaigns were
variants - ‘Sour Cream & Herbs’, ‘Salt n Pepper’ and stepped up to connect with regional culture codes
‘Indian Spice Mix’, with 30% less fat proposition for to generate positive consumer buzz and increase
visibility across focus markets such as South region,
consumers indulging in mindful snacking. Leveraging
UP, MP, Bihar and Odisha.
the ‘Hot & Spicy/Korean’ trend, the Bingo! Snacks
portfolio was augmented with a slew of differentiated – The Frozen Foods Business operating under Brands
offerings straddling across product categories ‘ITC Master Chef’, ‘Farmland’ and ‘Aashirvaad’
including ‘Bingo! Tedhe Medhe Xtraa Teekha’, continued to grow at an accelerated pace, powered
‘Bingo! Mad Angles Red Alert’ and ‘Bingo! Nachos by a range of delicious and innovative products
Korean Flavour’. Other launches during the year catering to ‘any time’ snacking and meal occasions.
include an innovative Pink Salt flavoured The launch of no-onion-no-garlic ‘ITC Master Chef
‘Bingo! Original Style Pink Salt Chips’ and Millet based Sabudana Tikki’ made from ‘sendha namak’, suitable
offering under ‘Bingo! Tedhe Medhe Pudina Twist’. for fasting occasions and innovative products like
Having forayed into traditional snacks through Chicken Kievs has helped to further strengthen the
Bingo! Tedhe Medhe Namkeens in the recent past, product portfolio in Retail and Food Service channels.
the Business continues to register robust growth in The Business directly distributes to over 200+ towns
the segment. Bingo! remains the market leader in leveraging emerging and traditional channels and
the Bridges segment across the country, and in the smart digital marketing to expand consumer franchise.
potato chips segment in South India. With a view to The frozen portfolio now comprises of over 80+ Indian
reinforce its leadership position and build consumer and Western Snacks, Parathas, Naans, Prawns and
engagement, ‘Bingo! Tedhe Medhe’ launched an Vegetables.
The Frozen Foods portfolio now comprises of
over 80+ Indian and Western Snacks, Parathas,
Naans, Prawns and Vegetables.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 55

[PAGE 74]
Report of the Board of Directors
During the year, your Company signed Definitive product formats of badam milk, lassi and buttermilk
Agreements for acquisition of 100% of the share under the mother brand ‘Aashirvaad’. The core
capital of Ample Foods Private Limited (AFPL) in one portfolio of Dark Fantasy milkshakes has been further
or more tranches. AFPL’s flagship brand, ‘Prasuma’, augmented with the launch of a new unique product
is a leading player in the frozen, chilled and ready to ‘Vanilla milkshake with white chocolate’.
cook foods space in India and is a specialist in oriental
– The Confectionery Business continued to nurture
cuisine (viz. momos, baos, Korean fried chicken),
its range of premium portfolio by leveraging
high-quality delicatessens and raw meats, etc.,
‘Fantastik Chocostick’, ‘Jelimals’ and
sells a wide assortment of 170+ products, backed
‘Candyman Fruitee Fun 3 in 1 chews’. The Business
by unparalleled innovation expertise in developing
strengthened its leadership in the wafer rolls
‘Good-for-You’ products. This acquisition will further
category with the launch of ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy’
fortify your Company’s presence in these
crème filled choco wafer rolls. The offerings have
future-facing categories, with current annual market
received excellent consumer response while the
size of over ` 10000 crores and poised for rapid
clutter-breaking communication has enabled strong
growth in the years ahead.
brand recall among target groups.
– On April 4, 2025, your Company completed the first
– ‘Fabelle’ chocolates continue to receive excellent
tranche of acquisition in AFPL to the extent of 43.75%
response from discerning consumers, setting new
of the shareholding of the company, in line with the
benchmarks in the luxury and premium chocolate
Definitive Agreements.
segments. During the year, your Company opened
– ‘Aashirvaad Svasti’ - fresh dairy portfolio continued an exclusive Fabelle store at Bengaluru airport,
its strong growth momentum during the year, led by expanding the availability of the luxury range of
strengthening its premium milk variant ‘Select’ and chocolates beyond the luxury boutiques at ITC Hotels
driving significant growth in value-added products and Quick-Commerce channel. The ‘Sunfeast Fantastik’
(Curd, Lassi, Mishti Doi & Ghee) through superior & range of chocolates, comprising Choco Almond and
differentiated offerings. The fresh dairy portfolio is Fruit & Nut variants launched in the previous year, was
currently available across Bihar, West Bengal & scaled up across markets after receiving excellent
Jharkhand markets and it continues to enhance market feedback from consumers in launch markets. The
penetration through rapid scale-up of its distribution product range was further augmented during the year
network. The Business rolled out a new premium with the launch of ‘Sunfeast Fantastik! 4D’, a unique
variant ‘Shahi Lassi’ under ‘Aashirvaad’ brand which product offering four indulgent layers of crunchy
elicited excellent consumer response in the launch wafer, milk choco, soft caramel and nutty peanuts
markets. Ghee portfolio was further augmented with in every bite. The product, endorsed by celebrities
the launch of a health-focused product proposition, Sreeleela & Siddhant Chaturvedi, has elicited strong
‘Cow Ghee with 90% low cholesterol’. consumer traction.
– The Beverages portfolio has been refreshed with – Exports remain a key focus area for the Branded
launch of innovative offerings to address the evolving Packaged Foods Businesses. In addition to
consumer needs. During the year, the Business Aashirvaad Atta exports, which is already a clear
entered the Ethnic beverages segment, a growing market leader across several markets, the Business
space, with the launch of region-specific offers around has been continuously sighting opportunities to
Exports remain a key focus area for the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses.
In addition to Aashirvaad Atta exports, which is already a clear market leader across
several markets, the Business has been continuously sighting opportunities to scale up
exports of value added adjacencies. The Business is also witnessing green shoots
in exports of other categories such as Biscuits, Noodles and Snacks.
56 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 75]
Report of the Board of Directors
scale up exports of value added adjacencies. category. At the E4M IDMA Awards, the Bingo AI Meme
The Business is also witnessing green shoots in Gallery received a Silver for Best Use of User Generated
exports of other categories such as Biscuits, Noodles Content and Bronze for Leveraging Social Media to
and Snacks, leveraging the equity of its core brands Boost ROI and Engagement; ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy’
such as Aashirvaad, Sunfeast Dark Fantasy, won Silver for Best Digital Innovation with its ‘Biting into a
Sunfeast Moms Magic, Sunfeast YiPPee!, Bingo! and Million Fantasies’ campaign. ‘Sunfeast YiPPee!’ secured
Kitchens of India. a Bronze at Effie Awards for the ‘Better World - Create Magic’
campaign, under Positive Change - Environmental
With the overarching vision to ‘Help India Eat Better’,
Brands category. At the E4M IMA South Awards,
your Company’s Nutrition strategy seeks to create a
sustainable ecosystem anchored on a portfolio of healthier, ITC Mission Millets won Gold in Best Use of Integrated
affordable & accessible ‘Better For You/Free From’ Marketing – FMCG, Bingo Mad Angle Song won
value-added products, supported by responsible policies Gold in Branded Content - Food & Beverages,
in line with national priorities on health and nutrition. Bingo Meme Premier League won Silver in Occasion/Festive
Your Company’s institutional strengths, as aforestated, are Based or Seasonal Marketing – FMCG along with
being leveraged to develop products providing consumers Aashirvaad Masala Karam winning Bronze in
wholesome and enjoyable food experiences. Best Use of TV – FMCG. From advancing nutritional
and sustainable food practices with the ‘Mission Millets’
In line with your Company’s commitment to fostering
campaign to empowering farmers and consumers
nutrition, health and wellness, the Business has launched
alike, the Business earned a Gold SABRE in the
a range of nutrition dense products under the ‘Right Shift’
Marketing to Consumer (New Product) category.
brand to address the nutritional needs of consumers aged
over 40. The portfolio has been curated using natural and The year marked a major step in advancing the Business’
proprietary ingredients developed at LSTC. Anchored digital maturity journey. With the vision of having a
on the vectors of better digestion, strength and energy connected digital ecosystem, the Business has launched
building, your Company launched a range of products Real Time Consumer Data Platform. With the objective of
such as ‘Jaggery Ragi Cookies’, ‘Millet Oats Kheer mix’, consistently engaging with consumers, the Business is also
‘Millet Oats Upma mix’ and ‘Millet Chana Mixture’ during building ‘always-on’ brand experience digital platforms,
the year. The recent acquisition of 24 Mantra Organic rooted in the respective brand philosophies. In this
would also further augment the Business’ portfolio of context, the Business went live with www.letsboing.com
nutrition-led healthy food products. for the Bingo! portfolio – an always on comedy content and
The Businesses continue to use a data driven experiences platform which takes the consumer through
approach to make sharp targeted brand investments, a fun journey of value exchanges through a curated
clutter-breaking communication and deepen consumer selection of amusing local news, newsmakers, memes,
engagements across all touch points, along with focused and horoscopes, all presented in the distinctive Bingo!
market development efforts to reinforce market standing flavour. During the year, the Business also launched an
across operating categories. Several campaigns ‘all things food & recipe’ content website - www.foodiesonly.in;
launched during the year received wide recognition with an endeavour to become a go-to website for
and won prestigious awards across leading platforms. recipes, tips & tricks, menu planners, masterclasses for
‘Aashirvaad Atta’ won Gold at Effie’s for its innovative home-chefs etc. The platform has generated excellent
‘Atta – Rap’ campaign in the Food, Snacks & Desserts consumer traction and has been one of the largest and
category, and Bronze at E4M in the Regional Campaign fastest platforms in terms of garnering consumer traffic.
In line with your Company’s commitment to fostering nutrition,
health and wellness, the Business has launched a range of nutrition dense products
under the ‘Right Shift’ brand to address the nutritional needs of consumers
aged over 40. The portfolio has been curated using natural and
proprietary ingredients developed at LSTC.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 57