[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 135-137

[PAGE 135]
Report of the Board of Directors
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (‘the Regulations’), the prescribed details of related party transactions of your
are available in the Notes to the Financial Statements Company in Form No. AOC – 2, in terms of Section 134
of the Company. The said disclosures forming part of of the Act read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts)
the Financial Statements can also be accessed on the Rules, 2014 are given in the Annexure to this Report.
Company’s corporate website http://www.itcportal.com
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
under the section ‘Investor Relations’. During the year,
there has been no change in the Company’s Employee As required under Section 134 of the Companies Act,
Stock Option Schemes. 2013, your Directors confirm having:
The Secretarial Auditors have certified that the Employee a) followed in the preparation of the Annual Accounts,
Stock Option Schemes of the Company have been the applicable accounting standards with proper
implemented in accordance with the Regulations and the explanation relating to material departures, if any;
resolutions passed by the Members in this regard.
b) selected such accounting policies and applied them
consistently and made judgements and estimates
INVESTOR SERVICE CENTRE
that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true
The Investor Service Centre of the Company (‘ISC’) and fair view of the state of affairs of your Company
provides in-house share registration and related services at the end of the financial year and of the profit of
to the shareholders and investors. By consistently your Company for that period;
adapting to emerging trends and leveraging digital
c) taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance
technologies, ISC remains steadfast in its commitment
of adequate accounting records in accordance
to delivering best-in-class services to the shareholders
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
and investors, while ensuring compliance with the
for safeguarding the assets of your Company
applicable statutory requirements. ISC is accredited with
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other
ISO 9001:2015 certification and is also registered with the
irregularities;
Securities and Exchange Board of India as a Category II
Share Transfer Agent. d) prepared the Annual Accounts on a going concern
basis;
The ‘Investor Relations’ section on the Company’s
corporate website http://www.itcportal.com serves e) laid down internal financial controls to be followed
by your Company and that such internal financial
as a user-friendly online resource for shareholders
controls were adequate and were operating
and investors, offering comprehensive guidance on
effectively; and
share-related matters. Additionally, shareholders
at their convenience can access a range of share- f) devised proper systems to ensure compliance with
related services through the dedicated service portal at the provisions of all applicable laws and that such
https://eform.itcportal.com . systems were adequate and operating effectively.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
All contracts or arrangements entered into by your Your Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
Company with its related parties during the financial year preparation of the consolidated financial statements of your
were in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Company and its Subsidiaries (‘the Group’), Associates
Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations. All such contracts and Joint Venture entities, in terms of the requirements
or arrangements were approved by the Audit Committee. of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and in accordance
No material contracts or arrangements with related with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,
parties within the purview of Section 188(1) of the Act including the Indian Accounting Standards specified under
were entered into during the year under review. Further, Section 133 of the Act.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 117

[PAGE 136]
Report of the Board of Directors
The respective Boards of Directors of the companies Particulars relating to Conservation of Energy and
included in the Group and of its associates and joint venture Technology Absorption
entities are responsible for maintenance of adequate
Particulars as required under Section 134 of the
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 relating to Conservation of Energy
the Act for safeguarding the assets of each company and and Technology Absorption are also provided in the
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; Annexure to this Report.
the selection and application of appropriate accounting
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
policies; making judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation The Company is in compliance with the applicable
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy Secretaries of India and approved by the Central
Government under Section 118(10) of the Act.
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant
to the preparation and presentation of the financial
Employees
statements that give a true and fair view and are free
The total number of employees as on 31st March, 2025
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
stood at 22,041.
Such financial statements have been used for the purpose
of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by The information required under Section 197(12) of the
the Board of Directors of your Company, as aforestated. Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
OTHER INFORMATION Rules, 2014 is provided in the Annexure forming
part of this Report.
Compliance with the conditions of Corporate
Governance The statement containing particulars of employees
as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies
The certificate from the Company’s Statutory Auditors,
Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies
Messrs. S R B C & CO LLP, confirming compliance with
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated
Personnel) Rules, 2014, forming part of this Report,
under the Listing Regulations, is annexed. is available on the Company’s corporate website
www.itcportal.com .
Going Concern status
Dividend Distribution Policy
There was no significant or material order passed during
the year by any regulator, court or tribunal impacting The Dividend Distribution Policy of your Company
the going concern status of your Company or its future may be accessed on its corporate website at
https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/dividend-
operations.
distribution-policy.pdf .
Annual Return
Key Financial Ratios
The Annual Return of your Company is available on its corporate
Key Financial Ratios for the financial year ended
website at https://www.itcportal.com/investor/disclosures-
31st March, 2025, are provided in the Annexure forming
under-SEBI.aspx .
part of this Report.
Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Details of loans and investments covered under the
This Report contains forward-looking statements that
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 are involve risks and uncertainties. When used in this
provided in Notes 4, 5, and 9 to the Financial Statements. Report, the words ‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘estimate’,
No guarantees were outstanding as at the year end. ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’ and other similar expressions
118 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 137]
Report of the Board of Directors
as they relate to your Company and/or its Businesses constitute about two-thirds of Net Segment Revenue.
are intended to identify such forward-looking At the heart of this transformation lies the power of
statements. Your Company undertakes no obligation to synergy, with seamless access for your Company’s newer
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, Businesses/initiatives to the deep and varied capabilities
whether as a result of new information, future events, resident across different parts of the enterprise, and its
or otherwise. Actual results, performances or world-class talent pool.
achievements could differ materially from those expressed
An extensive strategy reset has been undertaken in recent
or implied in such forward-looking statements. Readers
years to architect the structural drivers that will power
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
the ITC Next strategy of building a Future-Ready,
forward-looking statements that speak only as of
Consumer-Centric, Climate Positive and Inclusive
their dates. This Report should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements included herein and organisation to drive the next horizon of growth &
the notes thereto. competitiveness.
The FMCG Businesses have delivered strong performance
CONCLUSION
in recent years and are well poised to be rapidly scaled up
Your Company’s ‘Triple Bottom Line’ philosophy has across the three growth platforms i.e., fortifying the core,
over the years spurred the creation of innovative
addressing value-added adjacent opportunities leveraging
business models that synergise the building of economic,
mother brands and nurturing new vectors of growth.
environmental and social capital. It is now universally
Multi-dimensional interventions, including strategic
evident that enterprises of the future will not only have
acquisitions in high-growth and future-facing
to be agile, consumer-centric, innovative and digital-first
categories, have been made to accelerate growth,
but also purpose-driven and responsibly competitive.
enhance competitiveness and market standing of the
In line with its superordinate goal of serving larger national
FMCG Businesses.
priorities and creating value for all stakeholders, your
Company’s paradigm of ‘Responsible Competitiveness’ Focused interventions made in the recent past have also
focuses on building extreme competitiveness in a augmented your Company’s multi-channel go-to-market
manner that replenishes the environment and supports capability, resulting in manifold expansion in the reach
sustainable livelihoods. and availability of its products. Over the last five years,
market coverage has grown by more than 2x, facilitating
The strategic Vision of creating multiple drivers of growth
availability of products in nearly seven million retail
through the pursuit of market opportunities that best match
outlets of which more than one-third are serviced directly.
institutional strengths, has resulted in the development of
strong Businesses of the future anchored on a portfolio Sharp-focused investments have augmented capability in
of purpose-led brands, future-ready products and new gen channels such as e-Commerce, Quick Commerce
world-class quality. Today, your Company is the leading and Modern Trade, resulting in strong growth in sales
FMCG marketer in India, a pioneering trailblazer in farmer and enhanced market standing. In addition, investments
and rural empowerment through its Agri Business, the towards accelerating agile and purposeful innovation,
clear market leader in the Indian Paperboards and optimising supply chain efficiencies, accelerated digital
Packaging industry, and a global exemplar in sustainability. adoption, and strategic partnerships have significantly
ITC Hotels Ltd.–a group entity–is a pre-eminent hotel chain enhanced competitiveness. The impact of these
and a globally acclaimed icon in green hoteliering. Since multi-dimensional interventions is evident in the
the turn of the millennium, your Company’s non-cigarettes substantial margin expansion of 560 bps in Segment
businesses11 have grown nearly 40-fold and presently
EBITDA witnessed between FY 2018-19 and FY 2023-24
even in the face of heightened competitive intensity and
11 Excluding the Hotels Business, which was demerged during the year into ITC
Hotels Limited inflationary pressures.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 119