[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 92-94

[PAGE 92]
Report of the Board of Directors
acreage and investments in traceable and sustainable Your Company continues to drive agricultural
supply chains demonstrate the Business’ commitment transformation at scale through ITCMAARS
to responsible sourcing and future-readiness. (Metamarket for Advanced Agriculture and Rural Services),
a pioneering ‘Phygital’ platform that integrates digital
Your Company continues to be one of India’s leading
capabilities with on-ground engagement. ITCMAARS is a
exporters of value-added frozen marine products,
with strong capabilities in processing individually crop-agnostic full-stack AgriTech platform, that has been
quick-frozen (IQF), raw, and cooked products, steadily enhancing procurement efficiency, optimising
adhering to the highest safety and hygiene standards supply chains, and creating new avenues for value
demanded by discerning markets such as the US, EU, generation while delivering meaningful benefits to the
and Japan. The Business strengthened its position farming community. Using Farmer Producer Organisations
in the ‘Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) (FPOs) for physical engagement and a super app for
certified shrimp’ segment, reinforcing its leadership digital services, ITCMAARS is catalysing farmer impact
in sustainable seafood and aligning with customers’ at scale.
responsible procurement goals.
The ITCMAARS super app, which farmers can download
During the year, the Indian shrimp industry faced a on their phones, acts as a single point resource for farmers,
challenging environment marked by volatile farm providing personalised agricultural services through a plug
gate prices and supply chain headwinds. Despite and play model. This digital platform provides AI/ML driven
these challenges, your Company expanded its reach
personalised climate-smart crop advisories, intelligent
through market development in countries such as
nudges, customised soil nutrition, vernacular and voice
Greece, Israel, and Malaysia, and by launching
enabled Generative AI, satellite sensing and real-time
strategic product extensions, in line with its portfolio
image recognition tools for the farming community.
diversification goals.
The physical layer enables access to cutting edge
– Your Company continues to enhance its capabilities agricultural techniques such as biological agri inputs,
in the Medicinal and Aromatic Plant Extracts (MAPE) nano fertilizers, drones, precision farming technologies,
segment by strengthening backward integration, scientific quality assaying, market linkages and
cultivation programmes, and its portfolio of plant-based seamless access to formal credit at villages through
extracts. Focusing on Ayurvedic ingredients like FPOs and partners.
ashwagandha, turmeric, and marigold, the Business
This initiative now spans across more than 2,050 FPOs
deepened farmer engagement to ensure traceability
encompassing over 2.1 million connected farmers
and quality compliance. Your Company’s MAPE farm
across 11 states. Operating across more than
in Madhya Pradesh continues to play a pivotal role
10 crop value chains, the platform partners with
in varietal selection trials, seed production, and
establishing standardised package of practices, over 100 leading institutions, including banks, agri-input
enhancing the Business’ technical capabilities. companies, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR),
The Business also initiated organic cultivation to meet and agri-tech startups. The ITCMAARS super app,
the growing demand for certified organic extracts in available in 8 regional languages, has emerged as
premium export markets and is developing unique India’s highest-rated agriTech app. The ‘KrishiMitra’
value-added products leveraging the research voice assistant, the world’s first Gen AI-based chatbot for
platforms of the Life Sciences and Technology Centre farmers, has significantly boosted digital adoption through
of your Company. vernacular and voice-based interactions.
Your Company leveraged its strategic sourcing presence in
major coffee-growing regions of India and deepened its focus on
certified and sustainably sourced coffees to expand its market share in exports.
74 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 93]
Report of the Board of Directors
As India’s regulatory and consumer landscape increasingly – During the year, farmer-driven milk procurement
demands traceability and sustainability, ITCMAARS is network in Bihar, West Bengal, and Jharkhand
laying the foundation for ‘Trust Systems at Scale’, enabling was strengthened to meet the growing demands
the farming community to meet evolving standards of your Company’s Fresh Dairy portfolio under the
such as the EU Deforestation Regulation (EUDR) and ‘Aashirvaad Svasti’ brand and the ‘Sunfeast’
sustainably produced certification requirements. With a Dairy Beverages in Punjab. The Business expanded
vision to empower millions of farmers and unlock new the use of digital tools, including automated collection
value pools across the agri-inputs, outputs, and services systems, GPS-enabled logistics, and direct farmer
domains, your Company remains deeply committed to payments, to bring greater transparency across the
leveraging ITCMAARS to deliver enhanced productivity, value chain. Tailored dairy extension services covering
improved market access, and resilient incomes for India’s animal nutrition, health, and productivity enhancement
farming communities. were scaled up, improving yields and reinforcing
farmer loyalty. These efforts have enhanced farmer
Over the years, your Company has invested significantly
profitability while ensuring sustained delivery of
in building competitively superior agri-commodity
superior-quality milk aligned with brand requirements.
sourcing expertise comprising multiple business models,
The capability to source superior attribute-specific
wide geographical spread and customised infrastructure.
milk has enabled your Company to expand its
Your company is rapidly building expertise in data-science
Fresh Dairy portfolio with several innovative offerings.
led decision support systems to deepen its sourcing
capability. AI/ML models dynamically respond to evolving – The Business continues to scale-up sourcing
conditions across multiple sourcing dimensions and of spices to meet the growing requirements of
support the sourcing experts in making optimal decisions Sunrise and Aashirvaad brands.
around temporal and spatial vectors. These capabilities – Going forward, the organic sourcing capabilities, farm
and infrastructure have created structural advantages by linkages and traceability would also become a source
facilitating competitive sourcing of agri raw materials for of competitive advantage for the organic portfolio of
your Company’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses. your Company’s FMCG Businesses.
– The Business continued to play a pivotal role in The Business strengthened its collaborations with
securing benchmark-quality wheat to support the leading research institutions across India to build
growing requirements of the ‘Aashirvaad’ atta portfolio. cost-effective, high-yielding, and resilient Agri-value
Leveraging a wide sourcing network, robust crop chains. By mapping climate hotspots and focusing on
development initiatives, and digital tools, the Business regenerative agriculture, your Company introduced
ensured timely and cost-efficient procurement of location-specific seed varieties and tailored agricultural
critical grades of wheat. During the year, procurement practices in key states. This approach is aimed at
was scaled through direct farm linkages and FPOs, enhancing crop intelligence, reducing GHG emissions,
with a significant share of wheat sourced via digitally and improving soil health. Additionally, efforts to increase
enabled platforms. Crop development efforts were farm income were supported through the development
intensified to improve climate resilience, enhance of customised Agri-inputs, laying the foundation for
yields, and secure premium varieties to provide sustainable, future-ready food products. Your Company
consumers with best-in-class product quality and continued developing the millets value chain, promoting
experience. climate-resilient, nutrient-dense crops through public-private
The Agri Business strengthened its collaborations with leading research institutions
across India to build cost-effective, high-yielding, and resilient Agri-value chains.
By mapping climate hotspots and focusing on regenerative agriculture,
your Company introduced location-specific seed varieties and
tailored agricultural practices in key states.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 75

[PAGE 94]
Report of the Board of Directors
partnerships in Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh with https://www.itcportal.com/material-subsidiary-policy.
Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR). Presently, your Company does not have any material
subsidiary.
Driving the transformation towards NextGen Agriculture,
your Company has significantly accelerated digital
Surya Nepal Private Limited
adoption across the Agri landscape, empowering farmers
Nepal’s GDP grew by 3.7% during the fiscal year ended
with advanced, tech-enabled solutions. At the forefront is
July 2024, on a low base of 2% in the previous year, led
your Company’s ‘phygital’ innovation ITCMAARS which
mainly by uptick in agriculture, hydro power and tourism
delivers hyperlocal, personalised recommendations at
sectors. However, growth in the Nepalese economy
scale through predictive advisory models powered by
continues to be challenging amidst subdued economic
IoT and data analytics. This integrated ecosystem has the
activities resulting from weak consumer demand and
potential to unlock several evolving opportunities that can
sluggish private and public sector investments.
help reimagine the future of the agri sector and propel the
The economy saw a modest recovery this fiscal year with
Business to create new and scalable revenue streams,
an accommodative monetary policy and consumer price
whilst also benefitting farmers.
inflation moderating to 4.6% for the first 9 months of the
To further enhance rural livelihoods, your Company’s fiscal year as compared to 5.9% in the previous year.
focus on Value-Added Agri Products (VAAP) and crop Inward remittances, which significantly contribute to
diversification is catalysing a shift from conventional economic growth, stand at appx. 25% of the national GDP,
production-centric models to demand-driven, value-rich grew by 10.0% in the first 9 months, albeit at a slower
agri-value chains. Strategic investments in state-of-the-art pace than the previous year. Strong inward remittances,
export infrastructure are linking Indian farmers to global low interest rates and moderate inflation are expected
markets, driving growth and inclusivity. to lead to gradual recovery in private consumption and
consumer demand.
Through a wide spectrum of initiatives including
The Government of Nepal has recently introduced several
climate-resilient farming, natural resource management,
reforms to enhance investments, strengthen governance,
competitive value chain development, cutting-edge
public service delivery, ease of doing business etc.,
digital interventions and robust market linkages,
which are steps in the right direction. Further measures
your Company is enabling Indian agriculture to scale new
aimed at encouraging domestic and foreign investments,
horizons while advancing national priorities and delivering
incentivising the manufacturing sector to enable import
sustainable impact.
substitution and job creation, supporting the hospitality
sector with its large economic multiplier effect, on-ground
NOTES ON SUBSIDIARIES
implementation of reforms and promulgation of
The following may be read in conjunction with the industry-friendly policies remain key imperatives for
Consolidated Financial Statements of your Company achieving sustained economic growth.
prepared in accordance with Indian Accounting Standard 110.
The legal cigarette industry provides livelihoods to over
Shareholders desirous of obtaining the Report and
five lakh individuals involved in tobacco cultivation,
Accounts of your Company’s subsidiaries may obtain the
manufacturing & trade and makes a significant contribution
same upon request. Further, the Report and Accounts
to the revenue collection of the Government of Nepal.
of the subsidiary companies is also available under the
Despite its far-reaching economic impact, the legal
‘Investor Relations’ section of your Company’s website,
cigarette industry continues to face significant challenges
www.itcportal.com, in a downloadable format. Your from an increasingly punitive and discriminatory taxation
Company’s Policy for determination of a material subsidiary, and regulatory regime. The company continues to
as adopted by your Board, in conformity with Regulation 16 engage with policy makers for equitable, pragmatic,
of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing evidence-based regulations and taxation policies that
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015, balance the economic imperatives of the country and
can be accessed on your Company’s corporate website at tobacco control objectives.
76 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025