[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 408-410

[PAGE 408]
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
Client Transformation
through AI-led Innovation
Orbit Next:
Accelerating Growth
ITC Infotech's consistent focus on a
set of well-defined strategic initiatives has
been pivotal in yet another top quartile
performance in FY 2024-25. By securing high –
In FY 2024-25, ITC Infotech remained deeply aligned
impact transformation programs and deepening
to the evolving priorities of its clients, driving growth
relationships with key clients, the Company has
across clients by serving as a strategic partner in
continued to enhance its market position and
their transformation and value creation journeys.
deliver measurable business value. The company
The company leveraged AI to further sharpen its
approached this year with confidence laid by its
capabilities, leading to the launch of proprietary
strong foundation on strategic pillars of
Customer Centricity, Employee Centricity and GenAI-powered platforms - OmniFabrik and K-Fabrik
Operational Excellence, enabling the and other AI-driven accelerators.
organisation to remain on course with its In a key milestone, the company inaugurated its
Orbit Next journey. first Global AI Center of Excellence (CoE) in Kolkata,
India – designed to foster cutting-edge innovation
and develop scalable, AI-led offerings for global
clients. The company has also trained over
9,000 employees in AI capabilities, ensuring its
workforce is equipped to lead in a rapidly evolving
digital landscape.
Expanded Our Global Presence
Over the past few years, ITC Infotech has made strategic investments to expand its footprint across key global
markets, enabling them to serve their clients with greater proximity and agility. These efforts have strengthened
its presence across the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, and the Asia Pacific region. The company also opened
a new subsidiary in Saudi Arabia to amplify its focus and tap into the potential in the region. The acquisition of
Blazeclan Technologies has deepened its reach in high-growth Southeast Asian and ANZ markets, including
Singapore, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, and the Philippines, unlocking newer opportunities.

[PAGE 409]
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
Reinforcement of our Commitment to Sustainability
A key component of the Company’s Orbit Next strategy is
developing differentiated capabilities and solutions. In line with
the strategic intent, ITC Infotech entered into a definitive
agreement to acquire 100% shareholding of Blazeclan
Technologies Private Limited - a leading Cloud consulting firm
with deep expertise across Hyperscalers and strong data
platform capabilities. This acquisition enabled the company to
deliver comprehensive, end-to-end solutions across multi-cloud
and hybrid cloud environments. It serves as a critical enabler to
drive accelerated digital transformation for clients and reinforces ITC Infotech’s position as a trusted partner in
their cloud and AI first journeys.
Empowering People to Drive Strategic Growth
Powered by a bold people vision, the company continues to
strengthen its employee-centric and high-performance culture,
aligned with its Orbit Next strategy. Sustained investments in
attracting, developing, and retaining top talent - especially in
niche and future-focused technologies - are enabling the
company to enhance its workforce capabilities. During
FY 2024-25, ITC Infotech enhanced its talent capabilities
through bespoke learning pathways, domain and
technology-led upskilling, and curated leadership development
programs. The company’s holistic approach to career
development, supported by regular employee listening
mechanisms and transparent communication has led to
stronger engagement, improved retention, and a workforce
deeply aligned with its transformation journey.
Sustainable Impact through Social Commitment
In FY 2024–25, ITC Infotech’s Sustainability programme advanced its Urban Plantation initiative by planting 18,000
saplings with a 90% survival rate, enhancing green cover and carbon sink capacity. The Urban Water Management
initiative improved groundwater levels through the construction of two rainwater harvesting units and rejuvenation of
a 4-acre urban lake. Additionally, 262 employees volunteered 1,362 hours across activities including lake cleaning,
plantation drives, and awareness sessions, reflecting strong employee engagement in environmental stewardship.

[PAGE 410]
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 Creating Enduring Institutions
CII-ITC Centre of Excellence
for Sustainable Development
To ensure wider adoption of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ Framework (PCRAF) to assess and quantify climate
philosophy across the Industry, your Company established risks for Indian businesses and their value chains.
the ‘CII – ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable • In collaboration with Ministry of Environment, Forest and
Development’ (CESD) in 2006 in collaboration with the Climate Change (MoEFCC), the Centre is contributing to
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). The Centre continues the formulation of the National Inventory of Greenhouse
to focus on its endeavour to promote sustainable business Gases related to the Industrial Processes and Product
practices amongst Indian enterprises. The major highlights Use (IPPU) sector as part of India’s fourth National
during the year include the following: Communications (NATCOM) to the United Nations
Building Climate Resilience and Low Carbon Economy Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)
and the 1st Biennial Transparency Report under the
• The CII Climate Action Charter (CCAC) provides
NATCOM project.
a platform for Indian businesses to map Climate
Change as a material risk across value chains and Facilitating an Enabling Ecosystem for ESG
build resilience. The Charter has more than 500 • As part of SEBI’s Industry Standards Forum (ISF), CII
signatories across industry sectors. formed a Core Group and held consultations to develop
• CII-led delegation participated in the 29th Conference Standards for Reporting on Business Responsibility
of the Parties (COP29), held in Baku, Azerbaijan. A and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) Core. The
report, “CII at COP29 Negotiations: Indian Industry recommendations made by CII on the SEBI Consultation
Expectations,” launched at the Conference, Paper – ‘Recommendations of the Expert Committee
emphasizes a balanced approach for both mitigation for Facilitating Ease of Doing Business with respect to
and adaptation, and discusses the imperatives for BRSR’ were accepted by the regulatory body.
climate-resilient growth. Nature Positive Actions
• The Centre in collaboration with CEEW (Council • The India Business and Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI)
for Energy, Environment and Water) launched the participated in consultation meetings for updating
report on “Building Climate Resilience for Indian the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan
Industry” at the 19th Sustainability Summit. The report (NBSAP), and for adoption of National Biodiversity
has developed a Physical Climate Risk Assessment Targets (NBTs).
ITC Sangeet Research Academy
The ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA) was in other designated locations under the tutelage of the
established by ITC in 1977 as an independent Public country’s most distinguished musicians. The Scholars of
Charitable Trust with the aim of ‘enabling enduring the Academy have excelled in many ways, receiving national
excellence in the preservation, propagation and education scholarships given by both the Ministry of Human Resources
of Hindustani classical music’. and the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, and
The objective of ITC SRA is to create the next generation qualifying for other prestigious awards and accolades. They
of masters of Hindustani Classical Music. The methodology perform in very well attended music festivals organised
of training is based on the age-old principles of by the Academy in Kolkata, including the prestigious ITC
‘Guru Shishya Parampara’. The Academy is modelled Sangeet Sammelan. Additionally, through collaborations
as a professionally-run institution that epitomises the with organisers, the Academy presents its Scholars and
teaching of Hindustani Raga music. Through its eminent young musicians in ITC Mini Sangeet Sammelans, concerts
Gurus, it imparts intensive training and quality education and Baithaks in various locations like Hubli, Dharwad,
in Hindustani classical music to its Scholars. The present Sirsi, Lucknow, Jodhpur, Dehradun, Goa, Pune, Bengaluru
Gurus of the Academy are Padma Bhushan Pandit Ajoy etc enabling the Academy to fulfil its avowed objective of
Chakrabarty, Padmashri Pandit Ulhas Kashalkar, Pandit preserving and propagating Hindustani Classical Music.
Partha Chatterjee, Pandit Uday Bhawalkar, Vidushi Subhra On the occasion of India’s 78th Independence Day, ITC SRA
Guha, Shri Omkar Dadarkar, Shri Abir Hossain and composed a special piece of music as a tribute to the
Shri Brajeswar Mukherjee. Pandit Uday Bhawalkar was nation, which was presented on 15th August. The video
conferred the Rashtriya Kalidas Samman by Government Desh Ek Raag was based on Raag Desh and featured
of Madhya Pradesh in November 2024 for the year 2022-23. scholars of the Academy. The year also marked its first
The focus of the Academy remains the nurturing of Thumri Festival in March 2025 featuring stalwarts of the
exceptionally gifted students carefully hand-picked from genre as well as scholars of the Academy.
across India, who receive full scholarship to reside and ITC SRA is an embodiment of your Company’s sustained
pursue music education in the Academy’s campus and commitment to a priceless legacy and national heritage.