[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 24-26

[PAGE 24]
Your Directors
Committee Membership of other entities Mishra is a retired IAS Officer with administrative experience
of nearly 38 years. He joined the Indian Administrative
Name of the entity Committee Position
Service in 1983 and during his long public service, he
has served as an administrator, policy-maker and climate
UltraTech Cement Nomination, Chairperson
change strategist holding a wide range of assignments
Limited Remuneration and
Compensation in the fields of environment, health, education, industry
Committee and power. As Secretary of the Ministry of Environment,
Forest and Climate Change, Government of India (‘GoI’),
Audit Committee Member he spearheaded the Indian efforts for addressing climate
change issues and policy interventions in matters relating
Aditya Birla Sun Life Audit Committee Member
to pollution & air quality. He led India’s negotiations at
Insurance Company
important forums such as United Nations Framework
Nomination and Member
Limited
Convention on Climate Change - COP (Conference of the
Remuneration
Parties) for dealing with climate change, and was also
Committee
instrumental in formulating two large programmes
Orient Electric Limited Stakeholders Chairperson viz., National Clean Air Programme and India Cooling
Relationship Action Plan. Prior to this, he was the Secretary of the
Committee Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GoI, and also held
additional charge of the Ministry of Ayush for some time,
Nomination and Chairperson
where he led one of the largest public health programmes
Remuneration
globally viz., National Health Mission. He also led
Committee
Mission Indradhanush and several other national
programmes including the National Health Policy.
Audit Committee Member
He is involved with various international organisations
The India Cements Audit Committee Chairperson and multinational companies addressing health and
Limited climate change issues, including as Member
Nomination and Member
of the Senior Advisory Board of Exemplars in
Remuneration
Global Health of Gates Ventures and Advisor to the
Committee
Rockefeller Foundation.
Other Directorships
Name of the entity Position
Shriram General Insurance Chairperson &
C. K. Mishra
Company Limited Independent Director
Chandra Kishore Mishra (65), DIN: 02553126, was Balrampur Chini Mills Limited # Independent Director
appointed as an Independent Director on the ITC Board Borosil Scientific Limited # Independent Director
effective September 14, 2024. IPE Global Limited Non-Executive Director
A Graduate in History from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, Raigad Pen Growth Centre Non-Executive Director
Limited
and Post Graduate Diploma holder in Media Law from
the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research DCDC Health Services Private Non-Executive Director
Limited
(NALSAR), Hyderabad, Mishra has also completed
Advanced Leadership Programme from Australia and Meradoc Healthtech Private Non-Executive Director
Limited
New Zealand School of Government, Australia.
6 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 25]
Your Directors
Committee Membership of other entities Other Directorships
Name of the entity Committee Position
Name of the entity Position
Shriram General Nomination and Member
Life Insurance Corporation Chief Executive Officer &
Insurance Company Remuneration
of India # Managing Director
Limited Committee
Corporate Social Member LIC Housing Finance Chairperson &
Responsibility Limited # Nominee Director
Committee
LIC Cards Services Chairperson &
Balrampur Chini Mills Audit Committee Member
Limited Non-Executive Director
Limited
Borosil Scientific Audit Committee Member LIC Mutual Fund Asset Chairperson &
Limited Management Limited Non-Executive Director
LIC Pension Fund Limited Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director
S. Mohanty
Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
Siddhartha Mohanty (61), DIN: 08058830, was appointed
(International) B.S.C (c), Non-Executive Director
as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of ITC effective
Bahrain *
January 1, 2025, representing LIC.
Mohanty is a Post Graduate in Political Science with a Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
Bachelors Degree in Law and Post Graduate Certification (Nepal) Limited * Non-Executive Director
in Business Management.
Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
Mohanty retired as the Chief Executive Officer and
(Lanka) Limited * Non-Executive Director
Managing Director of LIC on June 7, 2025. During
his career at LIC spanning nearly four decades, he
Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
has gained multi-dimensional experience across
(Singapore) Pte. Limited * Non-Executive Director
all domains of life insurance covering Marketing,
Human Resources, Legal and Investments. He has held Larsen & Toubro Limited # Nominee Director
various important positions in LIC, including tenures
Kenindia Assurance Non-Executive Director
as Senior Divisional Manager in-charge of Raipur and
Company Limited, Kenya *
Cuttack Divisions, Regional Head of a marketing vertical
in the Western Zone, Chief of Investments (Back Office),
Committee Membership of other entities
Executive Director (Legal) and Managing Director &
Chief Executive Officer of LIC Housing Finance Limited.
Name of the entity Committee Position
He was also designated as the Chairperson of LIC from
April 2023 to June 2024. Life Insurance Nomination and Member
Corporation of India Remuneration
Mohanty served as the Chairperson of the Council for
Committee
Insurance Ombudsmen, President of the Insurance
Institute of India, Chairman of the Governing Board of
Larsen & Toubro Stakeholders Member
the National Insurance Academy, Pune, Chairman of the
Limited Relationship
Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council, and
Committee
a Council Member of the Institute of Actuaries of India.
ITC Limited 7
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 26]
Your Directors
S. Mukherjee A. Nayak
Shyamal Mukherjee (65), DIN: 03024803, joined the Anand Nayak (73), DIN: 00973758, joined the
ITC Board as an Independent Director effective ITC Board as an Independent Director effective
August 11, 2021. July 13, 2019.
Mukherjee is a Chartered Accountant and also holds Nayak is a Post Graduate in Personnel Management and
Degrees of Bachelors in Commerce and Law from Industrial Relations from XLRI Jamshedpur. He joined
Delhi University. He is the former Chairman and ITC in 1973 and served for more than 42 years until
Senior Partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers (‘PwC’) in
his retirement in December 2015.
India. With over 37 years of experience, he started his
During his long tenure with the Company, Nayak held
professional journey with PwC in 1984 and became
various portfolios and worked across several businesses
a Partner in 1993. As PwC’s Chairman, he was at
as well as at Corporate Headquarters where he headed
the forefront of making it a more future-ready firm,
the Human Resources Function from 1996 to 2015.
investing in and strengthening the firm’s key capabilities
He served on the Corporate Management Committee of
across its people, go-to-market initiatives and internal
ITC for over 18 years from 1997 to 2015. He was also
transformation. He is the Managing Trustee of the
responsible for overall management of Social Sector
Phanindranath Education Trust, West Bengal, and also a
initiatives under the CSR agenda of ITC, and mentored
Member of the Bar Council of Delhi.
the Mission Sunehra Kal team in crafting enduring
Other Directorships
sustainability solutions for rural India.
Name of the entity Position
Nayak does not hold directorship in any other entity.
Bharti Airtel Limited # Independent Director
Urban Company Limited Independent Director
Handy Home Solutions Private Independent Director A. Pande
Limited
Alok Pande (53), DIN: 10631871, was appointed as a
Committee Membership of other entities Non-Executive Director on the ITC Board effective
July 27, 2024, representing the Specified Undertaking of
Name of the entity Committee Position
the Unit Trust of India (‘SUUTI’).
Bharti Airtel Limited Audit Committee Chairperson
Pande, a senior Civil Servant specialised in Finance, is
Stakeholders Member presently Additional Secretary, Department of
Relationship Investment and Public Asset Management (‘DIPAM’),
Committee
Ministry of Finance, GoI. He holds a Bachelors Degree in
Engineering (Mechanical) from the Motilal Nehru National
Urban Company Audit Committee Chairperson
Institute of Technology, Allahabad, and has also
Limited
Nomination and Member
completed Fellow Programme in Management (Doctorate)
Remuneration
from the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore,
Committee
in the area of capital markets.
8 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025