[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 108-110

[PAGE 108]
Report of the Board of Directors
and capabilities, enabling strategic relevance, speed, Your Company’s talent development approach is
responsiveness, and operational excellence. This founded on the belief that learning initiatives must remain
approach allows Businesses, through their Management synergistic and aligned to business outcomes. Your
Committees, to focus, develop and execute Business Company provides managers with contemporary and
Plans relevant to their product-market spaces while relevant learning and development support through a
leveraging the institutional strengths of your Company combination of self-paced e-learning modules, classroom
and harvesting internal synergies. programmes and application projects with emphasis
on experiential learning, on-the-job assignments and
The year under review witnessed some softening of the
exposure to nationally and globally renowned faculty.
employment market, reflected in lower attrition and a more
Deep functional expertise is fostered at early stages of
measured approach to remuneration decisions in several
industry sectors. While flexible work arrangements an employee’s career through immersion in complex
are now prevalent across industry, there has been a problem-solving assignments requiring the application
moderation in application, reflecting a gradual shift of domain expertise. These interventions have
towards an equilibrium. Several global organisations, helped your Company build and sustain a culture of
with presence in India, have also chosen to review application-focused continuous learning, innovation and
their Diversity agenda. The adoption and integration of collaboration. Managers are assessed on your Company’s
digitisation and automation tools to enhance productivity behavioural competency framework and provided with
continues. Companies remain committed to prioritising learning and development support to address areas
employee well-being & mental health support. identified for improvement. Key talent is provided critical
experiences in high-impact roles and mentored by senior
Your Company’s unique employer equity as an exemplary
managers, promoting the development of a steady pool of
Indian enterprise creating world-class brands, building
high-quality talent.
business leaders and generating economic, social and
environmental capital for the Indian economy, continues Your Company has identified three capability vectors
to play a pivotal role in the attraction and retention of for making Businesses future-ready – Leadership
high-quality talent. The management trainee programme, Development, Business Critical Functional Competencies,
augmented with recruitment of experienced talent from and Organisation Identity & Pride. As a part of leadership
the market, is an integral part of building a deep pipeline. development initiatives, the Reflections 360 programme
Your Company continues to draw the finest management, provides leaders with feedback from team members,
technical and commercial talent from premier institutions peers and managers, enabling self-driven personal
in the country and is ranked amongst the leading
development. This is supplemented by immersive
companies in these institutions. Intensive engagement
workshops and personalised one-on-one coaching being
with the country’s premier academic institutions over the
made available for senior managers.
years to communicate your Company’s talent proposition
This approach ensures relevance and impact, thereby
through case-study competitions, knowledge-sharing
enhancing the capability index of your Company’s human
programmes by senior managers, on-ground exposure
capital. Globally benchmarked curriculum are tailored
and factory visits for students and the annual internship
to your Company’s context, especially in the domains
programmes have all contributed to creating a compelling
proposition for the best candidates to aspire for a of Digital Fluency, Data Science, Industrial Analytics,
career with your Company. Your Company continues to Brand Marketing and Manufacturing strategy. All these
enthuse talent with high-impact roles, competitive and interventions are delivered through subject matter experts,
performance driven remuneration with an emphasis on domestic and international, and supplemented with
long-term incentives, a wealth of learning opportunities, business-critical application projects. Periodic induction
a commitment to enhancing diversity, equity & inclusion, programmes, anchored by senior leaders, enable new
an employee-centric climate, well-being focused entrants to appreciate your Company’s Vision, Mission,
infrastructure and support that promotes fellowship and Culture, Values and Strategies while fostering pride in
commitment amongst employees. affiliation with your Company.
90 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 109]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company continues to strengthen its performance perspectives, fosters creative solutions and is integral
management system and its culture of accountability to serving customers better while creating value for
through widespread adoption of the system of all stakeholders. Your Company’s policy on Diversity,
Management-by-Objectives. Performance planning Equity and Inclusion articulates and institutionalises
through clearly defined goals, outcome-based assessment, this conviction through concerted actions spanning
and alignment of rewards for achievement of results three vectors, i.e., Representation, Inclusion & Enablement
have all contributed to a robust culture of ownership and and Commitment & Assurance. Your Company is
accountability. ‘Career Conversations’ and succession committed to enhancing gender diversity and participation
planning processes have contributed to helping employees of the differently abled in the workforce.
realise their potential, craft their careers while recognising
Measures to enhance diversity include ensuring
their strengths and areas of development and ensuring a
sufficient representation of women in selection pools
sound workforce planning system.
and deployment of the differently abled across suitable
In the spirit of continuous improvement, your Company opportunities in the value chain. Through progressive
maintains a practice of periodically assessing employee policies offering flexible work arrangements, extended
engagement through an entity-wide survey. The recent child-care leave, travel support for infants and care-givers,
survey results of 2024 continue to indicate an improving secure transport, paternity leave, same gender partner
trend, on a strong base, with scores increasing in the medical benefits, infrastructure support coupled with
range of 10 to 16 percentage points on key dimensions. various sensitisation programmes, Employee Resource
96% of employees reported a deep sense of pride and Groups, development interventions tailored for women
association with your Company, 94% reported a belief talent, and the commitment and sponsorship of leaders;
in your Company’s overarching goals & leadership and your Company provides an enabling environment to
94% are optimistic of the future. These engagement further its Diversity, Equity and Inclusion goals. To ensure
levels reflect in your Company’s superior standing
a safe and progressive work environment, Internal
on employee turnover. During the year, a range of
Committees have been institutionalised as per provisions
engagement programmes were sustained including
of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
initiatives such as leadership outreach through extensive
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
communication, recognition programmes acknowledging
The focused efforts across these dimensions have
exceptional contributions of employees and teams, career
resulted in a 72% increase in women managers in your
conversations and investments in employee wellbeing.
Company since FY 2021-22.
The year witnessed the Cigarettes Business receiving the
Your Company continued its practice of active leadership
Platinum Award for ‘Best Practices in Digitisation in HR’
outreach to employees. Periodic communication with
among Large Manufacturing Sector Companies at the
the ITC community through ‘StudioOne Townhalls’ led
8th CII National HR Competition 2024. The Personal
by the Chairman, provided employees avenues to hear
Care Business and Foods Business were conferred
from and engage with leaders about your Company’s
FICCI’s Women Empowerment Award 2024, under the
vision, strategy and milestones. This was supplemented
category - ‘Impactful Care Ecosystem for Employees’.
by a more personalised engagement through the
The Life Sciences and Technology Centre (LSTC) won
‘StudioOne Xchange’ initiative. The Chairman and other
the CII Award on ‘Excellence for Women in STEM 2024’.
members of the Corporate Management Committee
LSTC was the only organisation in the Life Sciences
interacted with managers across Businesses in small
Sector to be recognised in top 25 companies by CII in
groups, sharing your Company’s vision and strategies
this category.
while also inviting suggestions and feedback. Your
Your Company’s efforts to enhance Diversity, Equity and Company believes that alignment of all employees to
Inclusion are founded on the conviction that a diverse a shared vision and purpose is vital for winning in the
workforce contributes to rich discourse, promotes holistic marketplace. It also recognises the mutuality of interests
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 91

[PAGE 110]
Report of the Board of Directors
with key stakeholders and is committed to continue ensure that no complainant is victimised or harassed for
building harmonious employee relations. Your Company bringing such incidents to the attention of the Company,
remains dedicated to an Employee Relations climate and to keep the information disclosed during the
of partnership and mutuality while ensuring operations course of the investigation as confidential. The
are competitive, flexible and responsive. The Employee practice of the Whistleblower Policy is overseen by the
Relations philosophy of your Company, anchored in the Audit Committee and no employee was denied access to
tenets of Scientific Management, Industrial Democracy, the Committee during the year. The Whistleblower Policy
Human Relations and Employee well-being, has is available on the Company’s corporate website at
contributed towards building a robust platform which has https://www.itcportal.com/whistleblower-policy .
aided the conclusion of collective bargaining agreements
During the year, your Company received 24 complaints in
at several of its manufacturing units, ensuring smooth
terms of the Whistleblower Policy, of which investigation
commencement of operations at greenfield locations and
in respect of 15 complaints was completed; in most of the
the execution of productivity improvement practices.
cases, no evidence was found in support of the allegations
In its relentless pursuit of excellence and value creation, made. Appropriate action, where necessary, was taken.
your Company offers an abundance of opportunities for
employees to grow and thrive in an environment of trust, SUSTAINABILITY 2.0
empowerment and continuous learning. The access to
Your Company believes that when enterprises make
best-in-class resources, technology and infrastructure, the
societal value creation an integral part of their corporate
prospect of building businesses rooted in value chains in
strategy, powerful drivers of innovation emerge that make
India, the deployment of deep consumer insights to create
growth more enduring for all stakeholders. This paradigm
and shape Indian brands are the defining hallmarks of
is called ‘Responsible Competitiveness’ - an abiding
‘The ITC Way’. This unique blend of a high-performance
strategy that focuses on extreme competitiveness but in
culture coupled with care and respect for people remain
a manner that replenishes the environment and supports
vital to realising your Company’s vision of sustaining its
sustainable livelihoods.
position as one of India’s most valuable and admired
Your Company’s innovative business models synergise
corporations.
the building of economic, environmental and social capital,
WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY thus embedding sustainability at the core of its corporate
strategy. Today, this strategy has not only contributed
Your Company’s Whistleblower Policy, approved by
to building strong businesses of the future as well as a
the Board, encourages Directors and employees to
portfolio of winning world-class brands, but also in making
promptly bring to the Company’s attention, instances of
your Company a global exemplar in ‘Triple Bottom Line’
illegal or unethical conduct, actual or suspected incidents
performance. Your Company is the only enterprise in the
of fraud, actions that affect the financial integrity of
world of comparable dimensions to have achieved and
the Company, or actual or suspected instances of leak
sustained the three key global indices of environmental
of unpublished price sensitive information, that could
sustainability of being ‘water positive’ (for 23 years),
adversely impact the Company’s operations, business
‘carbon positive’ (for 20 years), and ‘solid waste recycling
performance and/or reputation. The Policy requires
positive’ (for 18 years).
the Company to investigate such incidents, when reported,
in an impartial manner and take appropriate action Your Company is actively working towards Sustainability 2.0,
to ensure that the requisite standards of professional an agenda which reimagines sustainability under the
and ethical conduct are always upheld. Anonymous pressing challenges of climate change and social inequity.
complaints are also entertained if the same is backed by Sustainability 2.0 calls for inclusive strategies that can
specific allegations & verifiable facts, and is accompanied support sustainable livelihoods, pursue newer ways
with supporting evidence. It is your Company’s Policy to to fight climate change, enable the transition to a net
92 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025