[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 71-73

[PAGE 71]
Report of the Board of Directors
Agri Business, deep and wide multi-channel distribution each of your Company’s branded packaged food products
network, cuisine knowledge resident in ITC Hotels Limited is manufactured in HACCP/ISO-certified manufacturing
(a group entity), industry-leading packaging knowhow and locations ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and
access to robust R&D platforms nurtured by LSTC – will adherence to the highest quality norms.
continue to be leveraged to serve as unique sources of
– In the Staples Business, ‘Aashirvaad’ delivered robust
competitive advantage for the FMCG Businesses.
growth on an elevated base, consolidating its market
leadership position. The value-added Atta portfolio,
Branded Packaged Foods
consisting of Multigrain, Select and Sugar Release
The Branded Packaged Foods industry witnessed severe Control Atta posted healthy growth driven by superior
headwinds during the year due to subdued consumer value proposition. Millet products (‘Atta with Millets’,
demand and unprecedented inflationary pressure ‘Gluten Free Flour’, ‘Ragi Flour’), Organic portfolio
across several key inputs viz. edible oil, wheat, maida, (‘Organic Atta’ and ‘Organic Dals’), ‘Aashirvaad
potato, cocoa, packaging inputs etc. In this backdrop, Vermicelli’, ‘Aashirvaad Rava’ (Suji Rava, Bansi Rava,
your Company sustained its position as one of India’s Samba Rava) and ‘Ready to Cook Chapati’ continued
largest and fastest growing branded packaged foods to witness strong growth. ‘Aashirvaad Besan’,
businesses, leveraging a robust portfolio of brands, with the unique proposition of smooth & lump-free
a slew of first-to-market products, regionally curated batter, was extended to more markets and continues
offerings, supported by an efficient supply chain and to scale up rapidly. With the objective of catering to
distribution network. regional preferences, a differentiated range of Atta
was launched in Mumbai (‘Premium MP Sehori’,
The Branded Packaged Foods Businesses remain
‘MP Sehori’, ‘MP Lokwan’ and ‘Khapli’ variants).
focused on addressing emerging consumer preferences
The Vermicelli range was expanded with the
through innovations anchored on the vectors of health,
launch of ‘Roasted Short Vermicelli’ in Tamil Nadu.
nutrition, wellness, immunity, naturals, indulgence and
‘Aashirvaad Soya Chunks’, with the proposition of
convenience. Several innovative and first-to-market
‘Juicy and Tasty’ as the differentiator was launched
products were launched during the year, leveraging
and has seen positive consumer response. With
your Company’s institutional strengths including superior
superior product development, purposeful marketing
consumer insights, innovation capabilities of the
inputs, consumer activations and region-specific
Life Sciences and Technology Centre (LSTC) and cuisine
interventions supported by manufacturing excellence
expertise resident in ITC Hotels Limited, a group entity.
and sharply targeted media investments, especially
While fortifying core portfolio, the Businesses continued to
across digital platforms, your Company is confident
scale-up presence in value-added adjacencies leveraging
of further fortifying Aashirvaad’s position as a
powerful mother brands and invest in categories of
preferred ‘centre-of-plate’ choice amongst Indian
the future.
households, catering to all future-ready ‘staple’ needs
Relentless focus on delivering superior quality products of consumers.
to consumers continues to be a key source of sustainable
‘Aashirvaad Salt’ continued to post robust growth
competitive advantage for the Branded Packaged Foods
in focus markets during the year, supported by its
Businesses. In this context, the Businesses continue to
distinctive positioning of “Iodine Assured salt for a
leverage the agri-commodity sourcing expertise resident
Smarter India”.
in your Company’s Agri Business to procure high quality
raw materials, thereby ensuring the highest level of In the Spices category, your Company continued to
quality, consistency and safety in its products. In addition, deliver strong growth with its endeavour to provide
Your Company sustained its position as one of India’s largest and fastest growing
branded packaged foods businesses, leveraging a robust portfolio of brands,
a slew of first-to-market products, regionally curated offerings, supported by
an efficient supply chain and distribution network.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 53

[PAGE 72]
Report of the Board of Directors
consumers unique and personalised experiences the Indian diaspora. SNBPL’s vertically integrated
that meet their taste preferences and reflect regional supply chain promotes sustainable livelihoods for
flavours and ethos. During the year, the Business its network of appx. 27,500 farmers spread across
grew on the back of distribution expansion in focus appx. 1.4 lakh acres of certified organic land in
states, sharp region-specific communication, and 10 states. The strong network of farmers and
an enhanced portfolio with innovative new offerings. certified organic sourcing capability are key sources
of competitive advantage for the company. The
The ‘Sunrise’ brand strengthened its market
acquisition reinforces your Company’s commitment
leadership position in the core market of West Bengal
to build a portfolio of future-facing winning brands that
and made significant gains in newer launch markets of
addresses the evolving needs of Indian consumers
the Northeast region and Bihar. The brand continued
and will unlock value creation opportunities by
to delight consumers by introducing unique and
leveraging your Company’s institutional strengths to
differentiated products catering to regional tastes and
drive synergies in areas such as product development
preferences, such as ‘Sunrise Soya Curry Masala’,
& innovations, sourcing, manufacturing, supply chain
‘Sunrise Chinese Fried Rice Masala’, ‘Sunrise
and distribution.
Schezwan Masala’ and augmenting the portfolio with
novel products such as ‘Sunrise Peri Peri Masala’ & – The Biscuits category witnessed resilient performance
‘Sunrise Restaurant Magic Masala’ for new age amidst a challenging operating environment. The
Business continues to strengthen its core portfolio with
consumers. ‘Aashirvaad Spices’ continues to enhance
investments behind powerful brand ideas, superior
its presence in new gen channels and core markets
products, cultural marketing with local insights and
to enable a full portfolio play along with expansion
unique innovations to drive growth. The ‘Sunfeast Dark
of the blended portfolio. The brand’s range of whole
Fantasy’ range of differentiated cookies sustained its
spices, launched in the previous year, also witnessed
leadership position in the premium segment. ‘Mom’s
rapid scale-up across online platforms. Aashirvaad
Magic’ range of cookies witnessed healthy growth
has appointed Natural Star Nani as the brand
during the year. The ‘Bounce’ range of cream biscuits
ambassador to strengthen the brand’s alignment with
was augmented with scale up of ‘Bounce Day & night’
cultural values such as the appreciation for cinema,
- a delicious dark choco biscuit with soft vanilla cream.
culinary traditions, and a profound connection to the
‘Sunfeast Supermilk’ biscuit harnessing the goodness
region’s unique customs and beliefs.
of ‘Naatu Maatu Paal’ continued to be scaled up in
On April 17, 2025, your Company signed a Share target markets. The portfolio mix was further enriched
Purchase Agreement to acquire 100% of the share with the launch of ‘Sunfeast Wowzers’, a 14-layered
capital of Sresta Natural Bioproducts Private Limited cracker enrobed with cream (currently available
(‘SNBPL’), an Indian company primarily engaged in Cheese and Lemon variants) and ‘Evening
Marie’ - a differentiated Marie with a savoury twist,
in the business of manufacture and sale of
in select markets. The Business also introduced a
organic packaged food products under the
portfolio of Super Premium Cookies under
‘24 Mantra Organic’ brand in the domestic as well as
‘Sunfeast Baked Creations’ with globally sourced
in international markets. SNBPL’s portfolio comprises
ingredients to leverage the advent of emerging niche
a wide range of 100+ organic products spanning
spaces in the Quick-commerce channel.
branded grocery staples, spices and condiments,
edible oils, beverages, etc. SNBPL has a strong Towards further deepening consumer engagement,
international presence with a deep connect with the brand launched several meaningful and
The ‘Sunrise’ brand strengthened its market leadership position
in the core market of West Bengal and made significant gains in
newer launch markets of the Northeast region and Bihar.
54 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 73]
Report of the Board of Directors
clutter-breaking campaigns during the year. exciting on-pack consumer offer with attractive prizes;
The Dark Fantasy brand, synonymous with the campaign was well received with over 13 million
turning everyday moments into extraordinary entries.
experiences, launched its ‘Big Fantasies’ campaign
– YiPPee! sustained its position as a strong No. 2 brand
leveraging cutting edge technology to deliver
in the Instant Noodles segment amidst heightened
fantastical experiences to consumers on ground.
competitive intensity. The Business continued to
Mom’s Magic further strengthened its core philosophy
strengthen its portfolio through a combination of
of ‘Iss Dil Ke Aage Sabki Har Hain’ with the launch
product laddering across multiple price points, wider
of the ‘Will of Change’ digital campaign which puts
assortment to cater to diverse consumer cohorts
a spotlight on the deep-seated societal bias that
and scale up of differentiated offerings. The portfolio
denies daughters their inheritance rights and
was further augmented with the launch of 2 exciting
advocates a shift towards equality, with mothers as
flavours in the Korean Noodles segment. Further,
the pillars of change.
the brand also forayed into Pasta Masala segment in
– ‘Bingo!’ Snacks delivered resilient performance during 2 flavours – Masala and Cheese. The brand refreshed
the year and strengthened its product portfolio with its communication outreach with popular Indian
the launch of exciting variants of snacks/namkeens. cricketers Jasprit Bumrah, Surya Kumar Yadav
During the year, Bingo! forayed into the Popped Chips and Rahul Dravid as celebrity brand endorsers.
segment with the launch of three exciting Investments in several high decibel campaigns were
variants - ‘Sour Cream & Herbs’, ‘Salt n Pepper’ and stepped up to connect with regional culture codes
‘Indian Spice Mix’, with 30% less fat proposition for to generate positive consumer buzz and increase
visibility across focus markets such as South region,
consumers indulging in mindful snacking. Leveraging
UP, MP, Bihar and Odisha.
the ‘Hot & Spicy/Korean’ trend, the Bingo! Snacks
portfolio was augmented with a slew of differentiated – The Frozen Foods Business operating under Brands
offerings straddling across product categories ‘ITC Master Chef’, ‘Farmland’ and ‘Aashirvaad’
including ‘Bingo! Tedhe Medhe Xtraa Teekha’, continued to grow at an accelerated pace, powered
‘Bingo! Mad Angles Red Alert’ and ‘Bingo! Nachos by a range of delicious and innovative products
Korean Flavour’. Other launches during the year catering to ‘any time’ snacking and meal occasions.
include an innovative Pink Salt flavoured The launch of no-onion-no-garlic ‘ITC Master Chef
‘Bingo! Original Style Pink Salt Chips’ and Millet based Sabudana Tikki’ made from ‘sendha namak’, suitable
offering under ‘Bingo! Tedhe Medhe Pudina Twist’. for fasting occasions and innovative products like
Having forayed into traditional snacks through Chicken Kievs has helped to further strengthen the
Bingo! Tedhe Medhe Namkeens in the recent past, product portfolio in Retail and Food Service channels.
the Business continues to register robust growth in The Business directly distributes to over 200+ towns
the segment. Bingo! remains the market leader in leveraging emerging and traditional channels and
the Bridges segment across the country, and in the smart digital marketing to expand consumer franchise.
potato chips segment in South India. With a view to The frozen portfolio now comprises of over 80+ Indian
reinforce its leadership position and build consumer and Western Snacks, Parathas, Naans, Prawns and
engagement, ‘Bingo! Tedhe Medhe’ launched an Vegetables.
The Frozen Foods portfolio now comprises of
over 80+ Indian and Western Snacks, Parathas,
Naans, Prawns and Vegetables.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 55