[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 106-108

[PAGE 106]
Report of the Board of Directors
– ECGC cover for exports (covering commercial & operations, security of assets, prevention and detection of
political risks) and credit insurance for large domestic frauds/errors, accuracy and completeness of accounting
customers. records and compliance with various regulatory
requirements as applicable.
The combination of policies and processes as outlined
above adequately addresses the various risks associated Your Company’s independent and robust Internal Audit
with sourcing of commodities for your Company’s processes, both at the Business and Corporate levels,
Businesses. provide assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness
of internal controls, compliance with business processes
Your Company’s strategy of backward integration in
and procedures, internal policies and regulatory
sourcing of agri-commodities such as wheat, potato,
requirements. The role of Internal Audit is to enhance
fruit pulp, spices, milk and leaf tobacco; in-house
and protect organisational value by providing risk-based
manufacturing of paperboards, paper and packaging
assurance, advice and insight, while enabling continuous
(including pulp production and print cylinder making
improvement of your Company’s internal control systems.
facilities); wood procurement from the economic vicinity
of the Bhadrachalam unit, facilitates access to critical The Internal Audit function, comprising professionally
inputs at benchmark quality and competitive cost qualified accountants, engineers, and Information
besides ensuring security of supplies. Further, each of Technology (IT) specialists, is well-equipped and
resourced to provide audit assurances at the highest
your Company’s Businesses continuously focuses on
levels. Targeted learning and development programmes
product mix enrichment and yield improvement towards
on contemporary topics are periodically organised to
protecting margins and insulating operations from spikes
enhance knowledge and skill set of the audit team.
in input prices.
The scope and coverage of Internal Audit remains
The Risk Management Committee met thrice during the
contemporary and cognises, inter alia, for the rapid
year and was updated on the status and effectiveness of
digitalisation of your Company’s business operations.
the risk management plans. The Audit Committee was
In recent years, Internal Audit has enhanced focus on
also updated on the effectiveness of your Company’s Risk
systems and controls pertaining to your Company’s digital
Management systems and policies.
assets including brand websites, social media handles,
The risk management practices of your Company,
mobile and cloud applications, IT-OT integration, and
as reviewed through the Risk Management Cell and
protection of sensitive personal data and information.
Internal Audit processes, have been found to be relevant
Information security and cybersecurity have assumed
and commensurate with the size and complexity of
critical significance with the accelerated adoption of
its operations.
digital technologies. In this context, periodical reviews
AUDIT AND SYSTEMS are conducted focusing on assessment of controls
pertaining to confidentiality, integrity and availability of
Your Company believes that strong internal control
business information and systems covering general IT
systems that are commensurate with the scale, scope
controls and security of your Company’s IT Infrastructure.
and complexity of its operations are concomitant to the
All systems and policies relating to Information
principle of governance that freedom of management
Management are regularly reviewed and benchmarked to
should be exercised within a framework of appropriate
ensure they remain contemporary. Furthermore, all critical
checks and balances.
IT systems undergo pre-implementation audit before being
Your Company remains committed to ensuring a mature deployed in the operating environment, thereby providing
and effective internal control environment that, inter alia, assurance regarding the rigour of implementation and
provides assurance on orderly and efficient conduct of operational readiness.
88 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 107]
Report of the Board of Directors
Aligned with your Company’s ‘Digital First’ strategy, HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
the Internal Audit function has evolved into an agile,
Your Company’s thought, strategy and action are inspired
multi-skilled and technology-enabled function. Processes
by a larger purpose of being an exemplary Indian enterprise
within Internal Audit function are continuously enhanced
that not only delivers superior competitive performance,
for greater effectiveness and productivity by utilising
but also embeds sustainability and inclusiveness at the
best-in-class tools for audit analytics, intelligent
core of its Businesses. This approach enables your
automation, adoption of new open-source tools and
Company to delight consumers and customers with a
AI-enabled BOTs. Utilisation of the recently implemented
vibrant portfolio of industry leading products and services
Digital Audit Management System, a tool for end-to-end while generating enduring value for the Indian economy
digitisation of audit life cycle, was scaled up during the and the larger community of stakeholders. The talent
year; key enhancements such as ‘Agile Audit’ module were management strategy of your Company is designed to
introduced to improve efficiency and monitoring across attract, retain and develop human capital that enables
the assurance process lifecycle. An integrated advanced your Company to sustain its position as one of India’s
data analytics tool has been adopted to enhance auditors’ most valuable corporations, whilst continuing with its
capabilities with low-code/no-code scripting, automated mission of building a responsible ‘Future-Tech’ enterprise.
data extraction, and analysis of both structured and Your Company’s employees relentlessly strive to deliver
unstructured data. In addition, several off-the-shelf tools world-class performance, collaborating with each other
were introduced for IT security checks, code reviews and and discharging their role as ‘trustees’ of all stakeholders.
vulnerability assessments of your Company’s websites, Your Company is committed to perpetuating vitality –
apps, and social media handles. its growth as a value generating engine and also as an
exemplary institution – so that it continues to succeed in
Qualified engineers within the Internal Audit function
its relentless pursuit of creating enduring value.
review the design, planning and execution of all ongoing
projects that involve significant expenditure. This Your Company’s Human Resources development
ensures that project management controls are robust approach spans four key organisational dimensions of
and yield ‘value for money’. The Internal Audit function Architecture, Alignment, Agility and Ability which are
supported through strategies crafted in areas such as talent
also leverages state-of-the-art industry-specific tools and
acquisition, engagement, diversity & inclusion, capability
technology to conduct comprehensive project audits.
building, employee relations, performance & rewards and
Your Company’s Internal Audit processes are certified
employee well-being. Through its various talent initiatives
as complying with ISO 9001:2015 Quality Standards.
and processes, your Company strives to deliver the value
Further, systems and processes are in accordance with
proposition of ‘Building Winning Businesses, Building
the Standards on Internal Audit (SIA) issued by The
Business Leaders and Creating Value for India’. The talent
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
development practices help create, foster and strengthen
The Audit Committee of your Board met twelve times the capability of human capital to deliver critical outcomes
during the year. The Terms of Reference of the on the vectors of strategic impact, operational efficiency
and capital productivity while reimagining consumer
Audit Committee, inter alia, include reviewing the
experience, driving business model transformation and
effectiveness of the internal control environment,
enhancing employee experience.
evaluating your Company’s internal financial controls &
risk management systems, and monitoring the Your Company’s ‘Strategy of Organisation’ is designed
implementation of action plans arising from significant to promote agility through a culture and practice of
Internal Audit findings. Material observations, as defined distributed leadership enabled by a three-tier governance
in the Terms of Reference, are reviewed at the highest structure. This is manifested in market and consumer
level by the Audit Compliance and Review Committee facing Businesses, which are driven by empowered,
(ACRC) and the Audit Committee. cluster-based teams and supported by shared assets
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 89

[PAGE 108]
Report of the Board of Directors
and capabilities, enabling strategic relevance, speed, Your Company’s talent development approach is
responsiveness, and operational excellence. This founded on the belief that learning initiatives must remain
approach allows Businesses, through their Management synergistic and aligned to business outcomes. Your
Committees, to focus, develop and execute Business Company provides managers with contemporary and
Plans relevant to their product-market spaces while relevant learning and development support through a
leveraging the institutional strengths of your Company combination of self-paced e-learning modules, classroom
and harvesting internal synergies. programmes and application projects with emphasis
on experiential learning, on-the-job assignments and
The year under review witnessed some softening of the
exposure to nationally and globally renowned faculty.
employment market, reflected in lower attrition and a more
Deep functional expertise is fostered at early stages of
measured approach to remuneration decisions in several
industry sectors. While flexible work arrangements an employee’s career through immersion in complex
are now prevalent across industry, there has been a problem-solving assignments requiring the application
moderation in application, reflecting a gradual shift of domain expertise. These interventions have
towards an equilibrium. Several global organisations, helped your Company build and sustain a culture of
with presence in India, have also chosen to review application-focused continuous learning, innovation and
their Diversity agenda. The adoption and integration of collaboration. Managers are assessed on your Company’s
digitisation and automation tools to enhance productivity behavioural competency framework and provided with
continues. Companies remain committed to prioritising learning and development support to address areas
employee well-being & mental health support. identified for improvement. Key talent is provided critical
experiences in high-impact roles and mentored by senior
Your Company’s unique employer equity as an exemplary
managers, promoting the development of a steady pool of
Indian enterprise creating world-class brands, building
high-quality talent.
business leaders and generating economic, social and
environmental capital for the Indian economy, continues Your Company has identified three capability vectors
to play a pivotal role in the attraction and retention of for making Businesses future-ready – Leadership
high-quality talent. The management trainee programme, Development, Business Critical Functional Competencies,
augmented with recruitment of experienced talent from and Organisation Identity & Pride. As a part of leadership
the market, is an integral part of building a deep pipeline. development initiatives, the Reflections 360 programme
Your Company continues to draw the finest management, provides leaders with feedback from team members,
technical and commercial talent from premier institutions peers and managers, enabling self-driven personal
in the country and is ranked amongst the leading
development. This is supplemented by immersive
companies in these institutions. Intensive engagement
workshops and personalised one-on-one coaching being
with the country’s premier academic institutions over the
made available for senior managers.
years to communicate your Company’s talent proposition
This approach ensures relevance and impact, thereby
through case-study competitions, knowledge-sharing
enhancing the capability index of your Company’s human
programmes by senior managers, on-ground exposure
capital. Globally benchmarked curriculum are tailored
and factory visits for students and the annual internship
to your Company’s context, especially in the domains
programmes have all contributed to creating a compelling
proposition for the best candidates to aspire for a of Digital Fluency, Data Science, Industrial Analytics,
career with your Company. Your Company continues to Brand Marketing and Manufacturing strategy. All these
enthuse talent with high-impact roles, competitive and interventions are delivered through subject matter experts,
performance driven remuneration with an emphasis on domestic and international, and supplemented with
long-term incentives, a wealth of learning opportunities, business-critical application projects. Periodic induction
a commitment to enhancing diversity, equity & inclusion, programmes, anchored by senior leaders, enable new
an employee-centric climate, well-being focused entrants to appreciate your Company’s Vision, Mission,
infrastructure and support that promotes fellowship and Culture, Values and Strategies while fostering pride in
commitment amongst employees. affiliation with your Company.
90 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025