[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 238-240

[PAGE 238]
Annexure 2
to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date on
the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements of ITC Limited
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act,
2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone Ind AS financial statements of ITC Limited
(“the Company”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial statements of the
Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of
adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its
business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial
information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone
Ind AS financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both issued by ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to these standalone Ind
AS financial statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with
reference to these standalone Ind AS financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls with reference to standalone Ind AS financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial
controls with reference to these standalone Ind AS financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion
on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone Ind AS financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With Reference to these Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
220 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 239]
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets
that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls With Reference to Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to
financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone
Ind AS financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone Ind AS financial statements
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established
by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E / E300003
per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
Place of Signature: Kolkata
Date: May 22, 2025 UDIN: 25089802BMNPUK4099
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 221

[PAGE 240]
Guide to Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures / Associates
Subsidiaries of ITC Limited I2A owns 100% of the shareholding of Indivate Inc.
incorporated as a New Jersey Corporation.
Surya Nepal Private Limited, Nepal
On 1st October 2024, I3L acquired 100% of the equity
Shareholding share capital of BTPL which is primarily engaged in the
59% held by ITC Limited. business of providing end-to-end cloud based solutions
and services. BTPL owns 100% of the shareholding of:
Nature of Business
Cloudlytics Technologies Private Limited
Manufacture and sale of cigarettes & branded packaged
Blazeclan Technologies PTE Ltd., Singapore
food products.
Blazeclan Technologies SDN. BHD., Malaysia
Subsidiary
Blazeclan Technologies Pty. Limited, Australia
Surya Nepal Ventures Private Limited, a wholly owned
Blazeclan Europe SRL., Belgium
subsidiary, is engaged in the business of manufacture and
Blazeclan Technologies Inc., Canada
sale of agarbattis.
Blazeclan Technologies LLC, USA
North East Nutrients Private Limited
Blazeclan Americas Inc., USA and
Shareholding Blazeclan Technologies Corporation, Philippines (BTC)#
76% held by ITC Limited. # Ownership include shareholding by two Directors of BTC,
who hold one share each in BTC.
Nature of Business
Blazeclan Technologies Pty. Limited, Australia, owns
Manufacture and sale of packaged food products from its
100% of the shareholding of Blazeclan Technologies
food processing facility based in Assam.
Limited, New Zealand.
ITC Infotech India Limited (I3L) All the above entities, other than Indivate Inc., are engaged
in the information technology services business. Indivate
Shareholding
Inc. is principally engaged in providing business consulting
100% held by ITC Limited.
services and opportunity based trading of FMCG products.
Nature of Business
Russell Credit Limited
Information technology services and solutions.
Shareholding
Subsidiaries
100% held by ITC Limited.
I3L owns 100% of the shareholding of :
Nature of Business
ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. (I2A)
Investment company. Its activities are primarily confined
ITC Infotech Limited, UK
to making long-term investments in strategic thrust areas
ITC Infotech Do Brasil LTDA., Brazil for ITC, namely FMCG, Paper, Paperboards & Packaging,
ITC Infotech France SAS Agri Business and Information Technology.
ITC Infotech GmbH, Germany Greenacre Holdings Limited
ITC Infotech Malaysia SDN. BHD.
Shareholding
ITC Infotech de México, S.A. de C.V. (I2MX)*
100% held by ITC Limited.
ITC Infotech Arabia Limited, Saudi Arabia
Nature of Business
ITC Infotech Italia s.r.l., Italy and
Engaged in property infrastructure maintenance, and
Blazeclan Technologies Private Limited (BTPL)
providing engineering, procurement & construction
* Ownership includes shareholding by I2A, which holds management and project management consultancy
one share in I2MX. services.
222 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025