[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 75-77

[PAGE 75]
Report of the Board of Directors
scale up exports of value added adjacencies. category. At the E4M IDMA Awards, the Bingo AI Meme
The Business is also witnessing green shoots in Gallery received a Silver for Best Use of User Generated
exports of other categories such as Biscuits, Noodles Content and Bronze for Leveraging Social Media to
and Snacks, leveraging the equity of its core brands Boost ROI and Engagement; ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy’
such as Aashirvaad, Sunfeast Dark Fantasy, won Silver for Best Digital Innovation with its ‘Biting into a
Sunfeast Moms Magic, Sunfeast YiPPee!, Bingo! and Million Fantasies’ campaign. ‘Sunfeast YiPPee!’ secured
Kitchens of India. a Bronze at Effie Awards for the ‘Better World - Create Magic’
campaign, under Positive Change - Environmental
With the overarching vision to ‘Help India Eat Better’,
Brands category. At the E4M IMA South Awards,
your Company’s Nutrition strategy seeks to create a
sustainable ecosystem anchored on a portfolio of healthier, ITC Mission Millets won Gold in Best Use of Integrated
affordable & accessible ‘Better For You/Free From’ Marketing – FMCG, Bingo Mad Angle Song won
value-added products, supported by responsible policies Gold in Branded Content - Food & Beverages,
in line with national priorities on health and nutrition. Bingo Meme Premier League won Silver in Occasion/Festive
Your Company’s institutional strengths, as aforestated, are Based or Seasonal Marketing – FMCG along with
being leveraged to develop products providing consumers Aashirvaad Masala Karam winning Bronze in
wholesome and enjoyable food experiences. Best Use of TV – FMCG. From advancing nutritional
and sustainable food practices with the ‘Mission Millets’
In line with your Company’s commitment to fostering
campaign to empowering farmers and consumers
nutrition, health and wellness, the Business has launched
alike, the Business earned a Gold SABRE in the
a range of nutrition dense products under the ‘Right Shift’
Marketing to Consumer (New Product) category.
brand to address the nutritional needs of consumers aged
over 40. The portfolio has been curated using natural and The year marked a major step in advancing the Business’
proprietary ingredients developed at LSTC. Anchored digital maturity journey. With the vision of having a
on the vectors of better digestion, strength and energy connected digital ecosystem, the Business has launched
building, your Company launched a range of products Real Time Consumer Data Platform. With the objective of
such as ‘Jaggery Ragi Cookies’, ‘Millet Oats Kheer mix’, consistently engaging with consumers, the Business is also
‘Millet Oats Upma mix’ and ‘Millet Chana Mixture’ during building ‘always-on’ brand experience digital platforms,
the year. The recent acquisition of 24 Mantra Organic rooted in the respective brand philosophies. In this
would also further augment the Business’ portfolio of context, the Business went live with www.letsboing.com
nutrition-led healthy food products. for the Bingo! portfolio – an always on comedy content and
The Businesses continue to use a data driven experiences platform which takes the consumer through
approach to make sharp targeted brand investments, a fun journey of value exchanges through a curated
clutter-breaking communication and deepen consumer selection of amusing local news, newsmakers, memes,
engagements across all touch points, along with focused and horoscopes, all presented in the distinctive Bingo!
market development efforts to reinforce market standing flavour. During the year, the Business also launched an
across operating categories. Several campaigns ‘all things food & recipe’ content website - www.foodiesonly.in;
launched during the year received wide recognition with an endeavour to become a go-to website for
and won prestigious awards across leading platforms. recipes, tips & tricks, menu planners, masterclasses for
‘Aashirvaad Atta’ won Gold at Effie’s for its innovative home-chefs etc. The platform has generated excellent
‘Atta – Rap’ campaign in the Food, Snacks & Desserts consumer traction and has been one of the largest and
category, and Bronze at E4M in the Regional Campaign fastest platforms in terms of garnering consumer traffic.
In line with your Company’s commitment to fostering nutrition,
health and wellness, the Business has launched a range of nutrition dense products
under the ‘Right Shift’ brand to address the nutritional needs of consumers
aged over 40. The portfolio has been curated using natural and
proprietary ingredients developed at LSTC.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 57

[PAGE 76]
Report of the Board of Directors
Over the years, your Company has made significant strategic cost management initiatives in areas such
investments in setting up state-of-the-art Integrated as supply chain optimisation, smart procurement and
Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities productivity improvement through automation, leveraging
(ICMLs) proximal to large demand centres. These facilities new-age technologies such as Industry 4.0, Artificial
are at the heart of your Company’s strategy to create Intelligence/Machine Learning, advanced visual analytics
structural advantage by enhancing product freshness, and smart utilities. These measures are instrumental in
elevating market agility, minimising the cost of servicing countering significant input cost volatility witnessed during
proximal markets, enabling scalability, while also the year, as well as offsetting gestation costs of new
setting new benchmarks in safety and product quality. initiatives and strategic brand development investments
Your Company continues to leverage the benefits of the in emerging categories. Going forward, these strategic
state-of-the-art Ancillary Manufacturing cum Logistics initiatives will aid the Business in further enhancing its
Facilities (AMLFs) at Pudukkottai, Kapurthala and Panchla. competitive positioning in the industry.
These automated facilities are co-located with the ICMLs
The food processing industry has immense potential
and provide several structural advantages including to boost agriculture by improving market linkages,
inventory optimisation, delayering operations and lowering resource efficiency and exports. The development of
cost of market servicing. the food processing sector is vital for addressing food
security, controlling inflation, improving nutrition, and
11 ICMLs are operational in locations proximal to large
preventing wastage, thereby enhancing farmer incomes.
demand centres, enabling delivery of fresher products,
Acknowledging the large economic multiplier impact of
reduction in distance to market and delayering of
the food processing industry, and growth opportunities in
operations. The capacity utilisation at these ICMLs
the Indian market, your Company has made substantial
continues to be ramped up while contributing to a
investments in this sector and remains focused on
progressive increase in workforce diversity and inclusion
establishing itself as the leading player in the branded
with each new investment. During the year, the Business
packaged foods industry.
also commenced operations at the new confectionery
manufacturing facility at Jammu. Your Company’s strong farm linkages, procurement
efficiencies, world-class brands and deep & wide
With its relentless focus on quality and manufacturing
multi-channel distribution network, with growing presence
excellence, your Company received over 100 prestigious
in new gen channels such as e-Commerce, Modern
external awards & accolades in the areas of Safety,
Trade, On-the-go and Institutional sales, continues to
Sustainability, Quality & Food Safety, Manufacturing
deliver competitive advantage through superior product
Excellence, Cost Competitiveness, Manufacturing &
availability, visibility and freshness. Recent investments
Supply Chain and HR from prestigious institutions such
in establishing a world-class distributed manufacturing
as the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Integrated
footprint have created a solid foundation to secure structural
Manufacturing Excellence Initiative (IMexI), etc. These
advantage over time. Cutting-edge R&D platforms of
accolades are testament to your Company’s unwavering
your Company’s LSTC are driving agile innovation and
commitment to providing products with the highest
faster turnaround times for introduction of differentiated &
levels of quality while reducing environmental impact of
first-to-market products catering to constantly evolving
the same.
consumer needs. Investments in leading-edge digital
To counter input cost volatility and support long-term technologies and platforms continue to be stepped up
profitability, your Company has implemented several across the value chain to drive competitive advantage.
11 state-of-the-art Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities (ICMLs) are
operational in locations proximal to large demand centres, enabling delivery of fresher products,
reduction in distance to market and delayering of operations. The capacity utilisation at these
ICMLs continues to be ramped up while contributing to a progressive increase
in workforce diversity and inclusion with each new investment.
58 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 77]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company is well poised to strengthen its position for an exclusive ‘Fiama presents Best Portrayal of Mental
as one of the fastest growing food companies and the Health in Cinema’ Award which was a first in the industry.
‘most trusted provider of food products’ in the Indian With a focus on premiumisation and innovation, Fiama is
market. Your Company remains confident of rapidly scaling well-positioned to drive continued growth.
up the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses leveraging
The ‘Vivel’ portfolio continued to strengthen its core
the strong growth platforms nurtured over the years in
association with aloe vera and natural ingredients, with
chosen categories which offer immense headroom for
the launch of Sandal Soap, Aloe Vera based Bodywash &
growth, address opportunities in value added adjacencies
a new range of naturals based Handwash liquids. Vivel’s
by leveraging mother brands and nurture new vectors of
repositioning of ‘Magic of Soft Touch’, is anchored on the
growth where beachheads have been created.
benefit of soft skin and highlights heartfelt emotions that
can be sparked by a gentle touch, creating cherished
Personal Care Products
memories and stories. The brand continued to strengthen
The Personal Care industry witnessed a challenging its association with Women Empowerment with its
year, marked by muted demand conditions, heightened collaboration with Azad Foundation, through ‘Parvaz’,
competition and unprecedented volatility in commodity a year-long leadership training programme that fosters
prices which intensified margin pressures. The premium women’s empowerment and enables young women
segment, however, continued to grow faster, reflecting an leaders to be catalysts of change in their communities.
ongoing shift towards value-added offerings, brand-driven
‘Savlon’ delivered strong growth leveraging initiatives
differentiation and increased demand for high-quality,
such as ‘Savlon Lao Shaan Badhao’. As a testament to
ingredient-led & sustainable products.
the Business’ focus on innovation, Savlon was recognised
Despite headwinds in the operating environment, with the NIQ BASES Breakthrough innovation award by
your Company’s Personal Care Business achieved robust Nielsen, making it one of 15 winners out of 40000 new
volume growth led by rapid scale-up in new gen channels launches across the country. Post pandemic, the brand
(E-commerce/Q-commerce & Modern Trade). Strategic has been successfully transitioning its proposition from
partnership with key accounts, channel specific packs & ‘protection’ to ‘caring protection’, strengthening its
launches and agile execution continue to drive growth. differentiation and creating a base for sustained growth
The premium portfolio remains a significant growth driver, momentum.
reinforcing your Company’s focus on delivering superior
In the Home Care segment, the ‘Nimyle’ range of products
consumer experiences through innovative offerings and
continued to expand rapidly across geographies and
differentiated value propositions.
channels. The brand provides a markedly differentiated
In the Personal Wash segment, ‘Fiama’ continued its proposition to consumers with a 100% natural action
robust growth trajectory, in both gel bars and shower which is safe for kids and pets. To further enhance shelf
gels. The Business augmented its product portfolio with presence and consumer affinity, the product packaging
the launch of ‘Fiama Moisturising Bars with Japanese was revamped during the year. The brand also launched
Hokkaido Milk’ in 3 variants, offering moisture rich ‘Nimyle Clean Equal Mission’ - a first-of-its kind educative
indulgence, non-sticky nourished skin and mood uplifting module for children across schools, designed to foster
fragrances. Beyond product innovation, Fiama expanded cleaning at homes as a shared responsibility, by raising
its Virtual Therapy platform with the MINDS Foundation. awareness and inspiring action among the next generation.
During the year, the brand also collaborated with Filmfare Anchored in its core values and a clear brand proposition,
Your Company’s Personal Care Business achieved robust volume growth led by
rapid scale-up in new gen channels (E-commerce/Q-commerce & Modern Trade).
Strategic partnership with key accounts, channel specific packs & launches and
agile execution continue to drive growth. The premium portfolio remains
a significant growth driver, reinforcing your Company’s focus on
delivering superior consumer experiences.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 59