[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 115-117

[PAGE 115]
Report of the Board of Directors
awarded by AWS. Till date, nine units of your Company Your Company aims to go beyond the requirements of
have achieved Platinum level certification under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2022 to ensure that
AWS Standard, thereby exceeding the commitment of over the next decade, 100% of packaging is reusable,
getting eight sites certified by 2024. recyclable or compostable/biodegradable. Your Company
is working towards optimising packaging in a way
Pioneering the Green Building Movement in India
that reduces the environmental impact arising out of
In order to continuously reduce your Company’s energy post-consumer packaging waste without affecting product
footprint, green features are being integrated in all new integrity. This is being addressed in a comprehensive
and old constructions including manufacturing units, manner by optimising packaging design, introducing
warehouses and office complexes. Your Company is a recycled content in packaging, identifying alternative
pioneer in the green building movement, with 17 buildings
packaging material with lower environmental impact and
having received Platinum certification by USGBC
supporting development of suitable end-of-life solutions
(US Green Building Council)/IGBC (Indian Green
for packaging waste.
Building Council).
Your Company has successfully implemented multiple
Several of your Company’s factories and office complexes
large-scale models of solid waste management across
have received the Green Building certification from IGBC
the country. These models, based on principles of circular
and the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design
economy, are scalable, replicable and sustainable, and
®
(LEED ) certification from USGBC. The data centre at
have enabled your Company to sustain its plastic neutral
Bengaluru, ITC Sankhya, is the first data centre in the
status since FY 2021-22. The approach is centred around
®
world to receive the LEED Platinum certification by
treating waste as a resource and ensuring that minimal
USGBC. Large infrastructure investments such as the
waste goes to landfill, which can be achieved only when
ITC Green Centre at Guntur and the ITC Green Centre
® waste is segregated at source. The initiatives focus on
at Bengaluru (both LEED Platinum certified) continue
educating citizens on segregating waste at source into
to demonstrate your Company’s commitment to green
dry & wet streams and ensuring that value is derived from
buildings. Virginia House, Kolkata and ITC Centre,
these resources and in the process, support sustainable
Kolkata – the headquarters of your Company, are
® livelihood for waste collectors. These models operate on a
also certified at the highest ‘LEED Platinum ’ rated
Green Building by USGBC. public-private partnership basis, with active involvement of
Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), civil society and the informal
Enabling a Circular Economy sector of waste collectors.
Your Company continues to make significant progress in Your Company has exceeded its commitment on plastic
improving the circularity of waste generated in operations. neutrality for the third consecutive year by collecting
The focus is on reducing waste through constant monitoring,
and sustainably managing 76,000 tonnes of plastic
improvement of efficiencies in material utilisation and
waste, which is more than the plastic packaging utilised
adequate waste segregation thereby improving recycling
by your Company. Your Company has been obtaining
rates. During the year, your Company achieved over 99%
independent third-party assurance of its plastic neutrality
recycling of waste generated in course of its operations.
status since FY 2022-23.
This has prevented waste from reaching landfills, with the
Your Company’s waste recycling programme,
associated problems of soil & groundwater contamination
and GHG emissions, all of which can adversely impact ‘WOW – Well-Being Out of Waste’, enables the creation
public health. In addition, your Company’s Paperboards & of a clean & green environment and promotes sustainable
Specialty Papers Business recycled nearly 85,000 tonnes livelihoods for waste collectors. During the year, the
of externally sourced post-consumer waste paper, thereby programme continued to be executed in Bengaluru,
creating yet another positive environmental footprint. Mysuru, Hyderabad, Coimbatore, Chennai, Delhi,
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 97

[PAGE 116]
Report of the Board of Directors
Dindigul, major towns of Telangana and several districts of As liquid waste is emerging as a growing challenge
Andhra Pradesh. The quantum of dry waste collected during especially in rural areas, during the year, your Company
the year was about 67,100 MT from over 1,760 wards. has also initiated pilots of different decentralised solutions
The programme has covered over 2.9 crore citizens in over like soak pits, in line treatment, waste stabilisation ponds
72 lakh households, 71 lakh school children and around and vertical filters in nine States.
2,240 corporates since its inception. It has promoted
Your Company’s partnership with Uttar Pradesh
sustainable livelihood for over 17,900 waste collectors by
Urban Development Department (UDD) is enabling
facilitating an effective collection system in collaboration
implementation of SWM programme in 85 ULBs
with Municipal Corporations. The intervention has
across 75 districts of the State, reaching out to over
also created over 150 social entrepreneurs who are
49 lakh households till date. Your Company’s
involved in optimising value capture from the collected
partnership with Lohiya Swachh Bihar Abhiyan (LSBA),
dry waste. Rural Development Department, Government of Bihar
continued to promote decentralised SWM in 456 villages
Your Company, in partnership with Kashtakari Panchayat
of Ganga region (‘Ganga Gram’) across 12 districts of
and SWaCH Pune, runs an inclusive and decentralised
Bihar. During the year, refresher training and handholding
waste management model in Pune to specifically focus on
support was provided to 3,100 Panchayat officials of these
collection and recycling of low value Multi-Layered Plastic
456 Ganga Gram villages through a cascade approach,
(MLP) packaging. Through a mobile collection system
who then initiated focused waste management activities
operating across 12 city wards and the Pune Cantonment
in their villages and covered over 4.6 lakh households.
Board, over 750 waste pickers collect MLP waste daily,
receiving direct payments. The initiative processes Your Company had also collaborated with Department
over 130 MT of flexible plastics monthly, and has of Drinking Water and Sanitation (DDWS), Government
cumulatively recycled nearly 4,100 MT since 2019. of India, and India Sanitation Coalition (ISC), FICCI, to
The program not only boosts incomes for informal workers develop 36 Gram Panchayats (GPs) across 10 states as
(contributing to ~12–15% of their earnings) but also Lighthouses, demonstrating best practices in sanitation
provides formal employment to 43 individuals, showcasing and waste management, which will be adopted by other
a replicable model that combines environmental GPs gradually. The partnership is part of the DDWS’s plan
stewardship with social equity. of creating 75 Lighthouse Gram Panchayats across India.
Till March 2025, of the 36 GPs, 28 GPs were declared
Further, a separate community-driven programme on
Model by Government, with the balance 8 GPs on track to
decentralised Solid Waste Management (SWM), including
become Model in the coming months.
closed loop Green Temple programme in collaboration
with Swachh Bharat Mission, is operational in 34 districts Your Company’s approach of involving Self Help Groups
across 12 states covering about 24.62 lakh additional (SHGs) as service providers for Gram Panchayats in
households during the year, taking the cumulative SWM and the use of Swachhata Mitra App for monitoring
coverage to nearly 75.21 lakh households. This programme waste management in partnership with Bihar Government
has got high appreciation as best practices.
deals with both wet and dry waste and focuses on
minimising waste to landfill by managing waste at source. Your Company’s ‘YiPPee! Better World programme’ is
Under the programme, more than 6.7 lakh MT of waste aimed at creating awareness about plastic waste and
was collected during FY 2024-25, out of which around ways to reduce, recycle and reuse it among students.
4.2 lakh MT of wet waste was composted, and During the year, the intervention reached out to 14 lakh
1.8 lakh MT of dry waste recycled, and thus 87% of the children across 4,175 schools. This programme along
total waste was avoided from being sent to landfills. with Company’s Social Investments Programme has
Further, home composting was practiced by over provided schools with over 1,850 benches and tables and
1.93 lakh households (8.3 lakh households till date). 350 sports kits made from recycled plastic.
98 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 117]
Report of the Board of Directors
Preserving and Nurturing Biodiversity risks. The policy also encourages suppliers to work
towards resource-use efficiency, including sustainable
Given the linkages between agriculture and the essential
natural resource management, GHG emission reduction
ecosystem services that nature provides, your Company
and sustainable waste management. For focused
recognises that the preservation and nurturing of
engagement with key suppliers, your Company has
biodiversity is crucial for long-term sustainability of its
created a framework for identifying its critical suppliers.
businesses. It is therefore committed to conducting its
Till FY 2024-25, more than 800 Tier-1 suppliers have been
operations in a manner that protects, conserves and
trained on ESG including 100% critical Tier-1 suppliers.
enriches biodiversity in line with the Board-approved
Additionally, appx. 70% critical Tier-1 suppliers have been
Policies on Biodiversity Conservation and Deforestation.
assessed on ESG aspects by a third party.
For both greenfield and brownfield operations, processes
For key agri value chains, your Company has implemented
are in place for assessing any actual or potential biodiversity
large scale sustainable and Climate Smart Agriculture
related risk or impact including conducting environmental
programmes. Till date, 31.7 lakh acres and over 12 lakh
impact assessments wherever required by environmental
farmers including 1.87 lakh women farmers have been
regulations. Moreover, location-specific exposure
covered under your Company’s Climate Smart Agriculture
including proximity to Key Biodiversity Areas is assessed
programme. Your Company also supports farmers with
periodically. Basis these assessments, key nature-related
adoption of sustainable farm certifications like Rainforest
risks that are material to your Company’s businesses/
® ®
alliance (RFA), Forest Stewardship Council (FSC ),
locations are identified, and mitigation plans are developed
Global Agricultural Practices (G.A.P) for identifying and
and implemented. Location specific risks covered in these
addressing environmental risks and human rights related
assessments include water stress, climate risks including
issues. For more information, refer to the Corporate Social
extreme weather events like droughts and floods,
Responsibility section.
land-use changes, soil quality and productivity, among
others. Your Company also recognises the potential
ITC’s Nutrition Strategy - ‘Help India Eat Better’
of nature-based solutions for carbon sequestration
In the context of India’s Triple burden of malnutrition, there
and building climate resilience, and prioritises actions
is an urgent need to pivot towards healthier lifestyles which
to minimise impacts across ecosystems and manage
requires access to safe, sustainable and nutritious food.
dependencies in a sustainable manner. Your Company
also has large scale programmes in place for ensuring Your Company’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses
deforestation-free leaf tobacco and wood value chains. have developed a 4-pillar model that uniquely combines
For more information, refer to the Corporate Social the strategic commitments to deliver on its nutrition
Responsibility section. strategy – ‘Help India Eat Better’. The strategy has
been developed to create an ecosystem and guide the
Sustainable Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing
organisation towards supporting the dream of a healthier
Your Company, with its diverse and expanding portfolio of nation via value-added products, sustainable food system
businesses, is working towards scaling up its sustainable initiatives, empowered people and healthy communities.
supply chain initiatives as part of its Sustainability 2.0 This also includes focus on diet diversity, food fortification,
Vision. Your Company has a Board-approved Policy on leveraging traditional systems of knowledge and use
‘Sustainable Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing’ and of millets. The strategy is also in line with Government
a ‘Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers’ of India initiatives such as Mission Poshan 2.0,
that together lay down the foundation for your Company’s Anemia Mukt Bharat, Kuposhan Mukt Bharat, Surakshit
engagement with its suppliers. In line with this policy, Matritva Abhiyan and the Aspirational Districts
your Company engages with its supply chain members Programme. Robust science-based nutrition targets
for building their capacity, assessing sustainability risks, have also been developed and are continuously tracked
and supporting them in building resilience against such and communicated to your Company’s stakeholders.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 99