[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 382-384

[PAGE 382]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from
the assessments at Question 10 above.
Please refer to response to Question 1 of Principle 5 under leadership indicators.
Leadership Indicators differently abled persons (including visitors), with
facilities like Persons with Disabilities (PWD) friendly
1. Details of a business process being modified / entrance, wheelchair, braille systems, tactile pavers,
introduced as a result of addressing human rights accessible washrooms etc.
grievances/complaints.
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
ITC’s Code of Conduct for its employees as well as
Suppliers and Service Providers, are adopted by the ITC’s Policy on Sustainable Supply Chain and Responsible
Board. The Code covers ITC’s commitment to human Sourcing ensures integration of sustainability in its
rights aspects like self-respect and human dignity, child supply chains. ITC’s suppliers /value-chain partners are
labour, gender friendly workplace, relationships with expected to adopt the principles enumerated in ITC’s
suppliers and customers, health & safety, environment, Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers. ITC
transparency, anti-bribery and corruption, and exemplary reserves the right to verify compliance with the Code of
personal conduct. ITC constantly engages with the
Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers at any time
rightsholders and stakeholders across the supply chain
through appropriate audit and assessment mechanisms,
for devising programmes that support Human Rights
including self-certification.
and Social Development in an integrated manner.
ITC periodically coordinates third party Human Rights
An illustrative example for ITC’s leaf tobacco value chain
impact assessment for the tobacco farm supply
is presented below. ITC coordinates Human Rights
chain. Additionally, ITC conducts third-party desktop
impact assessment with an independent party for its
assessment of its Critical Tier - 1* suppliers which
farm value chains. Sustainable Tobacco Programme 2.0
includes key aspects on Human Rights, Labour Rights
is an industry initiative to enhance agricultural supply
and Occupational Health and Safety, amongst other
chain due diligence and accelerate positive impacts
on environmental, social and governance elements. assessment criteria.
The programme focuses on 8 themes demanding leaf For more details, refer to response to Question 1
suppliers’ commitment on – Water, Human Rights, Crop, (Principle 5) under leadership indicators.
Soil, Climate Change, Natural Habitats, Livelihoods
and Governance. The Human Rights Due Diligence % Of Value Chain
focusses on identifying human rights risks and impacts Partners* (By Value Of
covering farmers and communities. Some of the actions
Business Done With Such
undertaken as an outcome of the assessment are:
Partners) That Were
Training and Awareness on Human Rights: Training and
Assessed
Awareness on Human Rights organised in 484 villages
covering subjects such as Farm Safety, Child Labour, Sexual Harassment
Wages, Fair Treatment, Freedom of Association, Water,
Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH), No Discrimination and Discrimination at
As of 31st March, 2025,
other areas pertaining to Human Rights. workplace
~70% of the Company’s
Farm Safety: ITC undertakes a holistic approach that
address the farm safety challenges in farming. 10,316 Child Labour Critical Tier-I suppliers
farmers have been provided with Personal Protective have been assessed
Equipment (PPE) kits for safe spraying of chemicals Forced Labour/ by a third party on ESG
and Secured Storage Box for safe storage of chemicals Involuntary Labour aspects including human
was provided for 7,830 farmers. Technology like drones rights-related aspects.
were scaled up covering 30,900 acres minimising human Wages
interference while chemical spraying, besides increasing
Others – please specify
the efficacy of operation and water saving.
*All ITC Businesses have identified Critical Tier-1 suppliers
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human based on aspects like buy value, ESG risk exposure and
rights due-diligence conducted. importance to business continuity, among others. ITC’s
The scope and coverage of Human Rights Due Diligence Sustainable Supply Chain Programme is focussed on
extends to own operations (including manufacturing working closely with the set of identified critical suppliers..
locations and offices) and value chain partners.
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken
or underway to address significant risks / concerns
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to
differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of arising from the assessments at Question 4 above.
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Please refer to responses to Questions 1 and 4 of
Most of ITC’s establishments are accessible to the Principle 5 under Leadership Indicators.
XXXV

[PAGE 383]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
Principle 6
Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
The Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) conversion rate used in intensity ratio calculations across Principle 6 has been aligned
with the guidance provided by the Industry Standards Forum for current reporting year and previous reporting year.
Essential Indicators
1. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
(All quantities in TJ except where specified)
From renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (A) 868 803
Total fuel consumption (B) 12,383 11,869
Energy consumption through other sources (C) 183 175
Total energy consumed from renewable sources (A+B+C) 13,434 12,847
From non-renewable sources
Total electricity consumption (D) 757 742
Total fuel consumption (E) 11,600 11,908
Energy consumption through other sources (F) 0 0
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (D+E+F) 12,357 12,650
Total energy consumed (A+B+C+D+E+F) 25,791 25,497
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total energy consumed/Revenue from operations) 347 379
(in Giga Joules/Crore INR)
Energy intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total energy consumed/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) 718 774
(in GJ/Million USD)
Energy intensity in terms of physical output*
23 23
(in GJ/tonne of production)
*Since ITC is a conglomerate with multiple businesses wherein physical output is reported in different units of measurement,
hence the data for energy intensity in terms of physical output (tonnes of production) is reported only for PSPD which accounts
for nearly 88% of ITC’s total energy consumption. For data of other Divisions, refer to ‘Climate Change’ section of ITC’s
Sustainability Report 2025.
ITC’s energy consumption data has been assured at the ‘Reasonable Level’ by an independent third-party assurance provider.
Note: The above data point does not include information for Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed
separately as a part of the Exhibit-A.
2. Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated consumers (DCs) under the Performance,
Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the
PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Three Units of ITC’s Paperboards and Speciality Papers Business are covered under the PAT scheme. The details of Units under
PAT scheme are available at https://beeindia.gov.in/en/programmesperform-achieve-trade/pat-notifications
ITC has made significant investments in reducing energy consumption and, accordingly, the performance of the Company’s
Units covered far exceeds the energy efficiency targets fixed under the PAT scheme. The Bhadrachalam Unit is the first pulp
and paper mill and the second unit in the country overall, to be rated GreenCo Platinum+ by CII, as part of Green Company
rating system.
Note: Details of the energy efficiency initiatives measures implemented during the year are included in ‘Disclosure on
Conservation of Energy and Technology Absorption’ section of the Report of the Board of Directors & Management Discuss
and Analysis in ITC Report and Accounts 2025.
XXXVI

[PAGE 384]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water, in the following format:
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in million kilolitres)
(i) Surface water 26.3 28.2
(ii) Groundwater 4.1 4.2
(iii) Third party water 0.8 0.9
(iv) Seawater/desalinated water 0 0
(v) Others 0 0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in million kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v) 31.2 33.3
Total volume of water consumption
10.5 11.5
(in million kilolitres) (Total water withdrawal – total water discharged)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover
(Total water consumption/Revenue from operations) 142 171
(in kilolitres/Crore INR)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP)
(Total water consumption/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP) 293 349
(in kilolitres/Million USD)
Water intensity in terms of physical output*
7.4 8.3
(in kilolitres/tonne of production)
*Since ITC is a conglomerate with multiple businesses wherein physical output is reported in different units of measurement, hence the
data for water intensity in terms of physical output (tonnes of production) is reported only for PSPD which accounts for 88% of ITC’s total
water withdrawal. For data of other Divisions, refer to ‘Water Security’ section of ITC’s Sustainability Report 2025.
ITC’s water withdrawal and consumption data has been assured at the ‘Reasonable Level’ by an independent third-party assurance provider.
Note: The above data point does not include information for Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed separately
as a part of the Exhibit-A
Over the years, ITC has created rainwater harvesting potential through extensive investments in its Integrated Watershed
Development Projects. The programme promotes the development and management of local water resources in water-
stressed areas by facilitating community participation in planning and implementing such measures, whilst building, reviving
and maintaining water-harvesting structures. As on 31st March 2025, ITC’s watershed development projects covering over 1.8
million acres of land created a total rainwater harvesting potential (RWH) of 59.90 million kl (cumulative), which is over five
times the net water consumed by ITC’s operations.
4. Provide the following details related to water discharged:
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in million kilolitres)
(i) To Surface water 10.9 11.5
No treatment 0 0
With treatment – please specify level of treatment Secondary Secondary
(ii) To Groundwater 0 0
No treatment NA NA
With treatment – please specify level of treatment NA NA
(iii) To Seawater 0 0
No treatment NA NA
With treatment – please specify level of treatment NA NA
(iv) Sent to third-parties 9.7 10.3
No treatment 0 0
With treatment – please specify level of treatment Tertiary Tertiary
Total water discharged (in million kilolitres) 20.6 21.8
ITC’s water discharge data has been assured at the ‘Reasonable Level’ by an independent third-party assurance provider.
Note: The above data point does not include information for Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed separately
as a part of the Exhibit-A
5. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and
implementation.
ITC’s approach to water stewardship focuses on reducing water intake by utilising treated wastewater within the
process, thereby reducing demand for fresh water. ITC Units have put in place necessary systems to comply with the
Consent to Operate (CTO) conditions including Zero Liquid Discharge, where applicable. 24 units of ITC have achieved
zero effluent discharge.
XXXVII