[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 76-78

[PAGE 76]
Report of the Board of Directors
Over the years, your Company has made significant strategic cost management initiatives in areas such
investments in setting up state-of-the-art Integrated as supply chain optimisation, smart procurement and
Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities productivity improvement through automation, leveraging
(ICMLs) proximal to large demand centres. These facilities new-age technologies such as Industry 4.0, Artificial
are at the heart of your Company’s strategy to create Intelligence/Machine Learning, advanced visual analytics
structural advantage by enhancing product freshness, and smart utilities. These measures are instrumental in
elevating market agility, minimising the cost of servicing countering significant input cost volatility witnessed during
proximal markets, enabling scalability, while also the year, as well as offsetting gestation costs of new
setting new benchmarks in safety and product quality. initiatives and strategic brand development investments
Your Company continues to leverage the benefits of the in emerging categories. Going forward, these strategic
state-of-the-art Ancillary Manufacturing cum Logistics initiatives will aid the Business in further enhancing its
Facilities (AMLFs) at Pudukkottai, Kapurthala and Panchla. competitive positioning in the industry.
These automated facilities are co-located with the ICMLs
The food processing industry has immense potential
and provide several structural advantages including to boost agriculture by improving market linkages,
inventory optimisation, delayering operations and lowering resource efficiency and exports. The development of
cost of market servicing. the food processing sector is vital for addressing food
security, controlling inflation, improving nutrition, and
11 ICMLs are operational in locations proximal to large
preventing wastage, thereby enhancing farmer incomes.
demand centres, enabling delivery of fresher products,
Acknowledging the large economic multiplier impact of
reduction in distance to market and delayering of
the food processing industry, and growth opportunities in
operations. The capacity utilisation at these ICMLs
the Indian market, your Company has made substantial
continues to be ramped up while contributing to a
investments in this sector and remains focused on
progressive increase in workforce diversity and inclusion
establishing itself as the leading player in the branded
with each new investment. During the year, the Business
packaged foods industry.
also commenced operations at the new confectionery
manufacturing facility at Jammu. Your Company’s strong farm linkages, procurement
efficiencies, world-class brands and deep & wide
With its relentless focus on quality and manufacturing
multi-channel distribution network, with growing presence
excellence, your Company received over 100 prestigious
in new gen channels such as e-Commerce, Modern
external awards & accolades in the areas of Safety,
Trade, On-the-go and Institutional sales, continues to
Sustainability, Quality & Food Safety, Manufacturing
deliver competitive advantage through superior product
Excellence, Cost Competitiveness, Manufacturing &
availability, visibility and freshness. Recent investments
Supply Chain and HR from prestigious institutions such
in establishing a world-class distributed manufacturing
as the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Integrated
footprint have created a solid foundation to secure structural
Manufacturing Excellence Initiative (IMexI), etc. These
advantage over time. Cutting-edge R&D platforms of
accolades are testament to your Company’s unwavering
your Company’s LSTC are driving agile innovation and
commitment to providing products with the highest
faster turnaround times for introduction of differentiated &
levels of quality while reducing environmental impact of
first-to-market products catering to constantly evolving
the same.
consumer needs. Investments in leading-edge digital
To counter input cost volatility and support long-term technologies and platforms continue to be stepped up
profitability, your Company has implemented several across the value chain to drive competitive advantage.
11 state-of-the-art Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities (ICMLs) are
operational in locations proximal to large demand centres, enabling delivery of fresher products,
reduction in distance to market and delayering of operations. The capacity utilisation at these
ICMLs continues to be ramped up while contributing to a progressive increase
in workforce diversity and inclusion with each new investment.
58 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 77]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company is well poised to strengthen its position for an exclusive ‘Fiama presents Best Portrayal of Mental
as one of the fastest growing food companies and the Health in Cinema’ Award which was a first in the industry.
‘most trusted provider of food products’ in the Indian With a focus on premiumisation and innovation, Fiama is
market. Your Company remains confident of rapidly scaling well-positioned to drive continued growth.
up the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses leveraging
The ‘Vivel’ portfolio continued to strengthen its core
the strong growth platforms nurtured over the years in
association with aloe vera and natural ingredients, with
chosen categories which offer immense headroom for
the launch of Sandal Soap, Aloe Vera based Bodywash &
growth, address opportunities in value added adjacencies
a new range of naturals based Handwash liquids. Vivel’s
by leveraging mother brands and nurture new vectors of
repositioning of ‘Magic of Soft Touch’, is anchored on the
growth where beachheads have been created.
benefit of soft skin and highlights heartfelt emotions that
can be sparked by a gentle touch, creating cherished
Personal Care Products
memories and stories. The brand continued to strengthen
The Personal Care industry witnessed a challenging its association with Women Empowerment with its
year, marked by muted demand conditions, heightened collaboration with Azad Foundation, through ‘Parvaz’,
competition and unprecedented volatility in commodity a year-long leadership training programme that fosters
prices which intensified margin pressures. The premium women’s empowerment and enables young women
segment, however, continued to grow faster, reflecting an leaders to be catalysts of change in their communities.
ongoing shift towards value-added offerings, brand-driven
‘Savlon’ delivered strong growth leveraging initiatives
differentiation and increased demand for high-quality,
such as ‘Savlon Lao Shaan Badhao’. As a testament to
ingredient-led & sustainable products.
the Business’ focus on innovation, Savlon was recognised
Despite headwinds in the operating environment, with the NIQ BASES Breakthrough innovation award by
your Company’s Personal Care Business achieved robust Nielsen, making it one of 15 winners out of 40000 new
volume growth led by rapid scale-up in new gen channels launches across the country. Post pandemic, the brand
(E-commerce/Q-commerce & Modern Trade). Strategic has been successfully transitioning its proposition from
partnership with key accounts, channel specific packs & ‘protection’ to ‘caring protection’, strengthening its
launches and agile execution continue to drive growth. differentiation and creating a base for sustained growth
The premium portfolio remains a significant growth driver, momentum.
reinforcing your Company’s focus on delivering superior
In the Home Care segment, the ‘Nimyle’ range of products
consumer experiences through innovative offerings and
continued to expand rapidly across geographies and
differentiated value propositions.
channels. The brand provides a markedly differentiated
In the Personal Wash segment, ‘Fiama’ continued its proposition to consumers with a 100% natural action
robust growth trajectory, in both gel bars and shower which is safe for kids and pets. To further enhance shelf
gels. The Business augmented its product portfolio with presence and consumer affinity, the product packaging
the launch of ‘Fiama Moisturising Bars with Japanese was revamped during the year. The brand also launched
Hokkaido Milk’ in 3 variants, offering moisture rich ‘Nimyle Clean Equal Mission’ - a first-of-its kind educative
indulgence, non-sticky nourished skin and mood uplifting module for children across schools, designed to foster
fragrances. Beyond product innovation, Fiama expanded cleaning at homes as a shared responsibility, by raising
its Virtual Therapy platform with the MINDS Foundation. awareness and inspiring action among the next generation.
During the year, the brand also collaborated with Filmfare Anchored in its core values and a clear brand proposition,
Your Company’s Personal Care Business achieved robust volume growth led by
rapid scale-up in new gen channels (E-commerce/Q-commerce & Modern Trade).
Strategic partnership with key accounts, channel specific packs & launches and
agile execution continue to drive growth. The premium portfolio remains
a significant growth driver, reinforcing your Company’s focus on
delivering superior consumer experiences.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 59

[PAGE 78]
Report of the Board of Directors
Nimyle remains committed to deepen consumer connect in the world, with 50 neem ecotypes sourced from
and expand availability across touchpoints. across India; your Company has tied up with a renowned
university for conducting primary research on these,
During the year, ‘Engage’ continued to strengthen its
to help deepen knowledge on Neem with a view to facilitate
position in a dynamic and evolving fragrance market.
development of new products. This facility also enhances
In recent years, the brand has pivoted based on the
the Business’ ability to serve high-potential eastern and
emerging consumer preference for perfumes & gifting,
north-eastern markets with greater agility, optimised costs
with both premium and mass perfume offerings growing
and reduced lead time.
well. Innovation and superior fragrance profiles remain
central to the brand’s strategy for scaling up consumer Your Company continues to strengthen its commitment to
traction. During the year, the ‘Spirit’ range of deos, sustainability with meaningful progress across packaging
with olfactive profiles of Oudh, Musk, fruity & floral was and consumer engagement. Fiama has expanded its use
launched. The premium L’amante range was extended of 50% recycled plastic across all PET bottle SKUs of
with differentiated variants such as Oudh, Fern, shower gels and hand wash, with clear on-pack callouts
Soie and Fluer. During the year, a new range of gift to build consumer awareness. To further promote refill
packs known as Vibes was introduced, providing a adoption, refill pouches made with recyclable plastic have
premium gifting experience. The brand stepped up also been introduced and are proposed to be scaled
consumer engagement to drive fragrance education with across variants.
‘Engage Scents & Senses’ with influencers & perfume
Your Company continued to earn widespread recognition
experts and amplified its digital content. Leveraging
across national and international forums for its innovative
robust R&D capabilities and in-house manufacturing,
product design, impactful communication, and purpose-led
the Business continues to deliver high-quality fragrances
brand initiatives. Fiama’s Mental Wellbeing Survey was
that resonate with discerning consumers.
honoured with the SABRE South Asia Diamond for
In the Skincare portfolio, the ‘Digital-first’ brand excellence in PR, while the recyclable Fiama Handwash
‘Dermafique’ continued to leverage an AI-powered smart pouch won the prestigious Global DOW Innovation Award.
skin advisor to provide personalised skin health analysis, Savlon Swasth India Mission received a Silver at the
empowering individuals to know their skin better and London International Awards for its impactful use of
adopt solutions suited to the unique skincare needs of social media in Health and Wellness and secured multiple
Indian consumers. During the year, offline expansion accolades at the Effie Awards and ET Brand Equity
gained momentum with entry into new large-format Brand Disruption Awards, including Golds for Influencer
stores, eliciting promising consumer response. Sustained Marketing and Viral Content. Vivel was awarded a Bronze
consumer education on customised skin health remains at the APAC EFFIES and a Gold at the ET Sharks Awards
a core focus as Dermafique seeks to build for the future for its tech-enabled campaign. Engage, Dermafique,
with data, science, and differentiated storytelling. and Nimyle were also celebrated across forums like
ET Digi+, Fulcrum, and Entrepreneur India Awards.
The Business achieved a major milestone this year with
These awards are a testament to the brands’ growing
the commissioning of the state-of-the-art Neemgarh
consumer franchise across target segments.
plant, situated in Uluberia, West Bengal. This modern,
digitally-enabled facility marks the first Personal Care The Business received 14 INDIASTAR 2024 awards for
Products plant in one of its most salient markets. excellence in packaging and its commitment to inclusivity
This site also houses the largest varieties of Neem plants was recognised with the FICCI Women Empowerment
The Personal Care Business achieved a major milestone this year with the
commissioning of the state-of-the-art Neemgarh plant, situated in Uluberia, West Bengal.
This modern, digitally-enabled facility marks the first Personal Care Products plant
in one of its most salient markets. This site also houses the largest varieties of
Neem plants in the world, with 50 neem ecotypes sourced from across India.
60 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025