[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 138-140

[PAGE 138]
Report of the Board of Directors
The FMCG Businesses will continue to leverage your The Paperboards, Paper and Packaging Businesses
Company’s institutional strengths as a key source of have made significant progress in recent years in
sustainable competitive advantage viz. strong backward terms of enhanced scale and profitability improvement.
linkages with the Agri Business, a deep & wide While the current year performance was impacted by
multi-channel distribution network, cuisine knowledge low priced Chinese & Indonesian supplies in global
resident in ITC Hotels Limited (a group entity), packaging markets including India, soft domestic demand conditions
knowhow and the robust R&D platforms nurtured by and unprecedented surge in wood prices, strategic
LSTC. Structural advantages arising out of distributed interventions continue to be made in areas spanning
manufacturing footprint, anchored on state-of-the-art ICMLs plantations, sharpening the product portfolio and thrust
strategically located proximal to large demand centres, will
on structural cost management. Representations
be increasingly leveraged to drive rapid growth of the FMCG
continue to be made at appropriate forums through
Businesses. With enhanced scale and margin expansion,
Industry associations for suitable measures to safeguard
the FMCG Businesses are expected to make increasingly
domestic industry and development of economically
higher contributions to your Company’s profit pool,
viable alternatives for plantations on degraded forest
thereby setting the stage for further value enhancement
land. Strategic investments have been stepped up
opportunities.
in areas such as pulp import substitution, proactive
The Agri Business has been a strong backbone and a capacity augmentation in Value-Added Paperboards
key source of competitive advantage for your Company’s segment, decarbonisation of operations, deployment of
FMCG and Cigarettes Businesses. The scope and Industry 4.0 technologies and towards nurturing robust
scale of operations have grown manifold over the years innovation platforms. Your Company has also recently
and currently encompass nearly 3.5 million tonnes entered into a Business Transfer Agreement to acquire the
of annual volume throughput in 22 states and over Pulp and Paper Undertaking of Aditya Birla Real Estate
20 agri-value chains. In recent years, the Business has Limited (Century Pulp and Paper), which is expected to
pivoted its strategic focus towards rapidly scaling up its add significant scale and economies to existing operations
Value-Added Agri Products portfolio to accelerate growth with potential for further capacity expansion, provide
and margins. With policy enablers in place, your Company locational advantage for efficient customer servicing and
is scaling up NextGen agriculture value chains that are
proximity to key raw material sources, mitigate operational
digitally enabled and climate smart, and re-structuring
risks through multi-site operations and enhance resilience
the back end into a robust network of FPOs. This will
across industry cycles through portfolio diversification.
further strengthen the sourcing network and facilitate the
The focus going forward is to fortify market leadership
development of customised supply chains for traceable
in the fast-growing Value-Added Paperboards segment
and identity-preserved sourcing of agri-commodities
by augmenting scale, driving cutting-edge innovation to
and in augmenting the product portfolio with the
rapidly scale-up single use plastic substitutes as a new
addition of value-added products such as staples for the
vector of growth, building structural advantage through
Food Service segment, medicinal and aromatic plant
product mix enrichment and scaling up the use of
extracts etc. Towards enhancing the competitiveness
emergent technologies such as Industry 4.0 to enhance
of domestic agri-value chains, fostering new
operational efficiency, reduce wastage and costs.
business models and augmenting value creation
opportunities, your Company has successfully scaled up Your Company continues to build a dynamic
ITCMAARS – a crop-agnostic ‘phygital’ full stack ‘Future-Tech’ enterprise powered by state-of-the-art
AgriTech platform integrating NextGen agri-technologies digital technologies and infrastructure (‘Mission DigiArc’)
and solutions – to seamlessly deliver hyperlocal and across the value chain adding significant impetus to digital
personalised solutions to the farming community marketing, digital commerce, digital products and digital
whilst creating new and scalable revenue streams and operations. Your Company today, is a pioneer in adoption
strengthening sourcing efficiencies. of cutting-edge digital technologies across strategic
120 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 139]
Report of the Board of Directors
impact areas spanning Consumer Experience, Business The resilience, agility and adaptive capacity demonstrated
Model Transformation, Smart Operations and Employee by your Company is a testament to the talent, determination
Experience. and untiring efforts of its pool of dedicated professionals,
associates and partners. Your Company’s diverse talent
Sustainability continues to be a critical focus area. Your
pool of professional entrepreneurs, ‘proneurs’, have the
Company is actively pursuing its bold Sustainability 2.0
unique opportunity to nurture categories, products and
agenda comprising multi-dimensional interventions in
brands from ideation to execution. This talent pool is
decarbonisation, building green infrastructure, scaling
being harnessed not only to create winning products and
up carbon sequestration, promoting climate-smart and
services for today, but also to seize larger opportunities
regenerative agriculture, restoring biodiversity through
as they emerge from the expanding horizons of your
nature-based solutions, enhancing water stewardship,
Company’s Businesses.
creating an effective circular economy and sustainable
packaging solutions, building climate resilience & adaptive Your Company’s Board and employees are inspired
capacity of value chains and developing inclusive value by the Vision of sustaining your Company’s position as
chains that can support 10 million livelihoods by 2030. one of India’s most admired and valuable companies,
creating enduring value for all stakeholders, including
Disruptive business models and value propositions
the shareholders and the Indian society. The vision of
anchored at the intersection of future frontiers of
enlarging your Company’s contribution to the Indian
Digitalisation and Sustainability form an integral part
economy is driven by its ‘Nation First: Sab Saath Badhein’
of your Company’s strategic roadmap going forward.
credo anchored on the core values of Trusteeship,
NextGen business models such as ITCMAARS in the
Transparency, Empowerment, Accountability and Ethical
agri-ecosystem, tech-enabled cloud kitchens in the food
Citizenship, which are the cornerstones of your Company’s
service space, sustainable paperboards and packaging
Corporate Governance philosophy.
solutions customised for end-use with focus on single
use plastic substitutes, are being progressed to actualise Inspired by this Vision, driven by Values and powered
these opportunities. Value-accretive acquisitions, joint by internal Vitality, your Directors and employees look
venture and collaborations continue to be proactively forward to the future with confidence and stand committed
pursued towards accelerating growth and value creation. to creating an even brighter future for all stakeholders.
On behalf of the Board
S. PURI Chairman & Managing Director
(DIN : 00280529)
Kolkata S. DUTTA Director & Chief Financial Officer
22nd May, 2025 (DIN : 01804345)
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 121

[PAGE 140]
Report of the Board of Directors
Annexure to the
For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY
1. CSR Policy - Brief outline and Overview
a. Brief outline of the CSR Policy:
It is ITC’s Policy to direct its CSR Programmes, inter alia, towards achieving one or more of the following – poverty
alleviation; promoting education and skill development; promoting healthcare including preventive healthcare;
providing sanitation and drinking water; ensuring environmental sustainability; enabling climate resilience; undertaking
rural development projects; creating livelihoods for people, especially those from disadvantaged sections of society;
protecting national heritage, art and culture; preserving and promoting music and sports; and providing relief and
assistance to victims of disasters and calamities.
In pursuit of the above, ITC has identified the following focus areas for its CSR Programmes based on comprehensive
need assessment surveys of its stakeholders:
(i) Create sustainable livelihoods and alleviate poverty through water stewardship and management of other
natural resources, sustainable agriculture and climate smart practices, on-farm livelihoods like afforestation,
off-farm livelihoods like livestock development, nano / micro-enterprises and women empowerment;
(ii) Build capabilities for tomorrow through interventions in education, skilling and healthy habitations through
sanitation, school WASH (Water, Sanitation & Hygiene) and waste management;
(iii) Promote healthcare, including preventive healthcare, and improve critical nutritional & health status of at-risk
population through interventions to strengthen mother & child health, nutrition, and affordable access to basic
healthcare services;
(iv) Protect national heritage, art & culture, and preserve & promote music and sports; and
(v) Provide relief and assistance to victims of disasters and calamities.
The CSR Policy of the Company may be accessed on its corporate website at https://www.itcportal.com/about-
itc/policies/corporate-social-responsibility-policy.aspx
b. Role of the CSR and Sustainability Committee:
The role of the CSR and Sustainability Committee is inter alia, to review, monitor and provide strategic direction to
the Company’s CSR and sustainability practices towards fulfilling its “triple bottom line” objectives. The Committee
seeks to guide the Company in crafting unique models to support creation of sustainable livelihoods together
with environmental re-generation. Formulation and monitoring of the CSR Policy, the Sustainability Policies and
the annual CSR Action Plan, including making recommendations to the Board as necessary, form part of the role of
the Committee.
c. CSR Programmes / Projects:
The two most important stakeholders for ITC’s CSR programmes / projects are:
Rural communities, primarily in the Company’s Agri Business areas.
Communities residing in close proximity to the Company’s production units.
The Company’s stakeholder profile is varied, calling for an integrated approach to development comprising several
layers of interventions which are summarised below, in line with Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013:
i. Promoting Preventive Healthcare, Sanitation & Poverty Alleviation (Schedule VII – i):
Health and Nutrition: Focus on preventive aspects through emphasis on Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition
(MCHN) through awareness and counselling by leveraging institutions like Anganwadis, Accredited Social
Health Activist (ASHA) workers and network of women Village Health Champions (VHCs). Also, strengthen
healthcare related services by supplementing primary & secondary infrastructure, upgrading Primary Health
Centres (PHC), and providing access to healthcare through mobile services & other interventions.
Waste Management and Circular Economy: Create a clean and healthy environment through awareness
& behaviour change for inculcating individual & community responsibility, facilitate source segregation
& recycling of dry and wet waste including plastics, management of liquid waste and enable sustainable
livelihoods and well-being of rag pickers & waste collectors.
122 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025