[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 13-15

[PAGE 13]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
Century Pulp & Paper
ITC has signed a
Business Transfer
Agreement to
acquire the Pulp and
Paper undertaking
of Aditya Birla Real
Estate Limited, a
strong strategic fit
with ITC’s
Paperboards and
Paper business.
Yoga Bar
Enhancing ITC's market
presence in the 'Good
for You' healthy
snacking space.
Mother Sparsh Blazeclan Technologies
Enabling ITC's Personal Care Products Business Augmenting ITC Infotech's
to build a category of the future in the premium capabilities to service
ayurvedic and natural baby care space. customers in a multi-cloud
and hybrid-cloud environment
to accelerate growth.
xi

[PAGE 14]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
New Growth Drivers at the Convergence of
Digital, Sustainability & Enterprise Strengths
ITC is pursuing new growth drivers at the intersection of mega trends in digital and sustainability, leveraging its
institutional strengths. The scaling up of the FoodTech services, ITCMAARS, as well as sustainable solutions to
substitute single-use plastics exemplifies this approach.
FoodTech
ITC's FoodTech services synergise the Company's strengths in Foods and Hotels as well as Digital capabilities.
Operating under 4 brands — ‘ITC Master Chef Creations’, ‘ITC Aashirvaad Soul Creations’, ‘ITC Sunfeast Baked
Creations’, and the newly launched ‘Sansho by ITC Master Chef’ — ITC's FoodTech services are delivered through over
55 cloud kitchens in Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Pune.
xii

[PAGE 15]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
ITCMAARS
The Company has scaled up
ITCMAARS (Metamarket for
Advanced Agriculture and
Rural Services) — a crop-
agnostic full stack AgriTech
platform across 11 states. This 'phygital'
ecosystem empowers the farming
community by delivering AI/ML enabled
personalised and dynamic advisory services,
climate smart technologies as well as
hyperlocal offerings, including market
linkages, agri inputs and credit enablement.
Leveraging over 2,050 FPOs, ITCMAARS
reaches out to more than 20 lakh farmers
Sustainable Solutions
ITC's Paperboards and Packaging Businesses are promoting scalable, innovative and sustainable solutions that
substitute single-use plastics.
ITC has commissioned a state-of-the-art
Moulded Fibre Products manufacturing
facility in Madhya Pradesh to provide
Unlocking a new paradigm in futuristic packaging solutions made from
Sustainability. Moulded Fibre Products
renewable natural fibres.
from ITC Fibre Innovations Limited
FiloPack, FiloServe, FiloTub, FiloBev, FiloBowl – Barrier-Coated Recyclable Paperboards
An easily-recyclable food grade
Replacing plastic
paper that serves as a substitute
containers in food delivery
for aluminium foil
Compostable coating
that provides
excellent oil & grease
Paperboard offering
resistance
that is a more
and heat sealability Made from responsibly sourced
sustainable alternative
paper, coated with a
to plastic-based indoor
compostable barrier, and built to
advertising
handle food safely - Ecobyte
makes it easier to serve with care
xiii