[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 376-378

[PAGE 376]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder Group Whether Channels Of Frequency Of Purpose And Scope
Identified As Communication (Email, Engagement Of Engagement
Vulnerable & SMS, Newspaper, (Annually/Half Including Key Topics
Marginalized Pamphlets, Advertisement, Yearly/Quarterly/ And Concerns
Group (Yes/No) Community Meetings, Others – Please Raised During Such
Notice Board, Website), Specify) Engagement
Other
Providers of financial No For more details on consultation mechanisms and key issues discussed
capital with the stakeholder groups, refer to ‘Strengthening Relationships with
All Stakeholders’ section of ITC Sustainability Report 2025.
Government and No
regulatory authorities
Customers No
Employees No
Farmers Yes
Value chain partners No
Media No
Civil Society No
Local communities Yes
Leadership Indicators Since 2016, the Company has made concerted efforts to
assess and improve engagement. The impact is visible
1. Provide the processes for consultation between in the consistent improvement of engagement over the
stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, years.
and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support
feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
the identification and management of environmental, and
ITC believes that an effective stakeholder engagement social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances
process is necessary for achieving its sustainability goal as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these
of inclusive growth. In this context, the Company has laid topics were incorporated into policies and activities of
down a four layered mechanism to deal with the aspect of the entity.
stakeholder engagement. Yes, the Company believes that an effective stakeholder
The Board, through the CSR and Sustainability Committee, engagement process is necessary for achieving its
inter alia, reviews, monitors and provides strategic sustainability goal of inclusive growth. Accordingly,
the Company anchors stakeholder engagement on the
direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability
following principles:
practices towards fulfilling its Triple Bottom Line
objectives. Half-yearly reports on the progress made a) Materiality – Prioritised consideration of the economic,
by the Company in this regard are placed by the CMC environmental and social impacts identified to be
before the CSR and Sustainability Committee. The CMC important to the stakeholders as well as the organisation.
in turn has constituted the Sustainability Compliance
b) Completeness – Understanding key concerns of
Review Committee (SCRC), comprising senior and other stakeholders and their expectations.
members of management, which evaluates and monitors
c) Responsiveness – Responding coherently and
compliance with the Policy formulated in this connection.
transparently to such issues and concerns. The
The SCRC places a quarterly report on the subject before
Company has put in place systems and procedures to
the CMC.
identify, prioritise and address the needs and concerns
The Company has a practice of periodically assessing of its stakeholders across Businesses and Units in a
employee engagement through a Company-wide survey. continuous, consistent and systematic manner. It has
XXIX

[PAGE 377]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
implemented mechanisms to facilitate effective dialogues and are being carefully synthesised to transform into
with all stakeholders across Businesses, identify material relevant solutions. A few key initiatives that demonstrate
concerns and their resolution in an equitable and the above are:
transparent manner. These measures have helped the
• The entire customer experience process has been
Company develop strong relationships, which have stood
incentivised for the associates, team leaders as well as
the test of time. Select examples of how stakeholder
for the Quality Analysts (QAs) in such a manner that each
inputs have been incorporated into ITC’s policies and
month they accumulate certain points for their monthly
activities are presented below:
performance based on objective and quantitative
1. Investors: The Company engages extensively with parameters. This has given the primary stakeholders
the investor ecosystem i.e., analysts representing (the associates) an opportunity to perform better. The
institutional equity investors, fund/portfolio managers in parameters include factors like ideation (KAIZEN) and
top FIIs, Domestic Mutual Funds (MFs), Foreign Portfolio initiatives taken beyond tasks to improve the process
Investors (FPIs), Private Insurance Companies etc. A continuously.
comprehensive Investor Presentation was made to the
• The scenarios related to matters like environment,
Investor community highlighting the broad contours
product, packaging, ergonomics, quality engineering, etc.
of demerger of the Company’s Hotels Business into
highlighted by the customers are answered as per the
ITC Hotels Limited, covering inter-alia overview of the
respective brand teams, and any new or unique scenario
Hotels Business, key growth strategies and financial
highlighted by the customers is shared with the respective
performance. The Company sustained the intensity
stakeholders as a VOC (Voice of Customer).
of interaction with analysts/fund managers of FPIs,
3. Community: Presented ahead are some of the
domestic MFs, Insurance cos. etc. during the year
instances where inputs received from stakeholders were
leveraging both physical and virtual meeting platforms.
incorporated into interventions.
The Company also engaged with investors with specific
focus on ESG and investor presentations on other major Social Investments team conducts a comprehensive Core
events such as acquisitions by the Company were made Area Perspective Plan (CAPP) in ITC’s catchments every
available in the public domain, through the websites of 5 years to understand the need of the communities and
the Company and the Stock Exchanges. The Company design the interventions basis that. Participatory Rural
continues to communicate quarterly performance Appraisal, Focused Group Discussions (separately with
takeaways through press releases and detailed Investor men, women and vulnerable groups), key informant
presentations along with providing clarifications to interviews and household surveys are done to ascertain
analysts and others on such financial results. Key the needs of the community and prioritise the intervention
highlights of quarterly performance are also being areas under CAPP. CAPP 1.0 was developed and first done
shared with the shareholders by e-mail. The ‘Investor in 2015-16 and subsequently, CAPP 2.0 in 2021-22 which
Relations’ section of the Company’s website is also being was across 21 factories and 7 agri locations.
updated on an ongoing basis. The Company is well-
In addition to CAPP every five years, sample household
recognised for its ESG credentials, and is acknowledged
surveys are conducted annually to re-assess and reaffirm
as one of the pioneers of adopting the Triple Bottom Line
the continued relevance of the needs identified and also
philosophy in India.
cognise for any operational changes that may be needed
2. Customers & Value Chain Partners: Customers, in the future plans. In FY 2024-25, over 3,000 households
Consumers and Value Chain Partners are some of ITC’s were surveyed. The survey was done engaging a mixed-
core stakeholders. Various tech-enabled avenues have method approach to collect both quantitative and
been deployed to constantly receive feedback and ideas qualitative data through structured questionnaires
from these stakeholders. administered to households. Qualitative data was
gathered through Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRA),
A specialised team, ‘Team Synthesis’, has progressively
Focused Group Discussions (FGDs) with Gram Panchayat
evolved from being a ‘Customer Interactions’ team to a
members, and community members with representation
‘Customer Experience’ team to ‘Stakeholder Experience
also of marginalised groups and women members.
Team’, and now into a ‘Stakeholder Experience
Management Team’. In its current avatar, in addition Forming large-scale long-term partnerships with
to keeping customer centricity as the base, SOPs Government to amplify reach & scale is one of the
and policies are designed and implemented in such a core tenets of SIP’s implementation approach. These
manner that the experience of all stakeholders is taken partnerships not only ensure that the Government
into equitable consideration. This has not just helped in programmes reach the community, but also enable
achieving better experience for customers as well as cognisance and incorporation of the community
the employees, but has also made every stakeholder perspective basis feedback received through
accountable for the team’s and the organisation’s growth. consultations and interactions. During the year, new PPPs
Rapidly evolving consumer needs are constantly being with Government and others were initiated incorporating
monitored through social listening, in-depth immersions insights from experiences in earlier phases of partnership
XXX

[PAGE 378]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
and basis appreciation of changing context, both of which programme or by introducing entirely new interventions.
were identified through extensive consultations and
• In India, only upto 55% of agricultural area has assured
discussions with all concerned stakeholders. Few such
irrigation and even in that, only around 19% is under micro
examples are shared below:
irrigation (drip and sprinklers). This results in close to half
• ITC had a partnership with Water Resource Department
of Indian agriculture, mostly involving small & marginal
(WRD), Government of Maharashtra to implement water
farmers, to be at the mercy of rainfall and also spend
use efficiency and productivity improvement through
more on purchase of water for surface irrigation. This also
capacity building of Water User Associations (WUA)
leads to wastage of purchased water. In this backdrop,
across 5 Districts in Maharashtra. Based on the success
ITC worked on designing a prototype of a solution that
of the partnership, Water Resource Department showed
would provide both access and efficient irrigation to the
keen interest for amplification of partnership to cover
other Irrigation Projects of Maharashtra, which also small & marginal rainfed farmers. ITC along with its
aligned with ITC’s amplification strategy. Subsequently, partner organisations and local plumbers and mechanics
ITC and WRD signed the second phase of the partnership developed a prototype of Mobile Drip Irrigation System.
for strengthening Water User Associations across 20 Mobile Drip Irrigation System is a combination of water
Districts of Maharashtra encompassing Godavari, Krishna tanker along with solar panel and a foldable drip irrigation
and Tapi river basins. For designing the second phase of system attached to the tanker which can be moved from
the partnership, wider consultations with WUAs, District
one field to another field along with the tanker. This system
level officials as well as WRD officials were conducted
is designed to enable sharing of total drip Irrigation
and feedbacks incorporated in the design. For example,
system by farmers and thus enabling procurement as a
WRD field teams suggested building Department staff’s
group rather than an individual farmer investing. Initial
capability in training the Water User Groups and Water
estimates suggested savings of upto Rs.2,500/- per acre
User Associations on water use efficiency in additional
and 45% lesser water consumption as compared to the
crops like Banana, Grapes and Pomegranate, which has
been incorporated. conventional system of water purchase. Post prototype
testing, it is now being replicated with 50 such mobile
• A study was conducted by Indian Institute of Science
drip units benefitting around 3,000 acres. Basis the pilot
(IISc) in South Pennar river basin which included survey
experiences, ITC has plans to scale-up the system.
and assessment of area. Recommendations of the study
were discussed with Government stakeholders like Rural • ITC has been implementing Financial Literacy (FL)
Development Department, Municipal and Panchayat bodies, programme for SHG women to create financial literacy,
etc. Thereafter, ITC has partnered with Department of help them in financial planning, and facilitate access
Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR), Government
to financial products as well as leverage Government
of Karnataka and Vyakti Vikas Kendra India, for Water
schemes. After training, SHG women in Madhya Pradesh
Resources Development in South Pennar river basin
and Uttar Pradesh expressed need for support required
covering 12 Taluks and 238 Gram Panchayats in Bengaluru
by them to start livelihood intervention. Based on deeper
Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Kolar & Chikkaballapur Districts
assessments of these requirements, ITC consulted
of Karnataka.
expert partners to initiate the livelihood intervention.
• In partnership with India Sanitation Coalition (ISC), ITC
ITC thereafter initiated a structured programme during
participated in the Light House Initiative (LHI), a priority of
the year, wherein women from low and middle-income
Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation (DDWS) to
backgrounds were provided with entrepreneurship
develop Open Defecation Free Plus (ODF+) “Model Villages”
development training along with mentoring to start, scale
in sanitation and waste management. Of the 75 villages in
LHI, ITC undertook responsibility for 36 villages across & successfully manage their enterprises. In West Bengal,
10 States. After successfully completing Phase I of LHI, basis feedback received during stakeholder engagements,
DDWS has now initiated Phase II of LHI with the objective of WINGS (Women’s Initiative for Nurturing Growth and
creating “Model Blocks”. ITC had discussions with Swachh Sustainability) initiative was started to address livelihood
Bharat Mission (SBM) District teams, took views of State issue of urban poor women with financial inclusion,
Mission Directors and then with feedback of DDWS and ISC, mentoring, enterprise development and capacity building
identified 18 Blocks in 16 Districts across nine States where for market access as the major components.
it will participate as part of Phase II of LHI.
• Liquid waste management is a growing problem in
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and
rural areas in India. To address this, ITC has initiated work
actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/
with Panchayats, helping them to plan for appropriate
marginalized stakeholder groups.
and cost-effective Liquid Waste Management structures
ITC’s SIP adopts a bottoms-up approach to identify and
and also supported them in the implementation. These
address the emerging needs of the community, scaling
solutions were contextualised based on inputs from expert
up and strengthening existing programmes, initiating
knowledge agencies before implementation. As a result
prototypes for testing newer solutions, expanding pilots
of this, construction of 16,000 soak pits and 300 other
to test implementation challenges, and leveraging
structures like vertical chambers, waste stabilisation
partnerships and collaboratives for amplifying successful
ponds and horizontal filters was undertaken, both in LHI
at scale interventions. Presented hereunder are a few
instances wherein changing community needs were and other ITC project villages, facilitated by leveraging
addressed either through modifications in the ongoing Swachh Bharat and Panchayat Funds.
XXXI