[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 21-23

[PAGE 21]
Your Directors
exchange4media, a leading online news platform, A qualified Chartered Accountant and Cost Accountant,
‘Distinguished Alumnus Award of the year 2018’ by Dutta joined ITC in November 1990. In a career spanning
the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, and was over three decades at ITC, he has held various senior
also bestowed with an Honorary Doctorate by the roles in the finance function, both at the business and
XIM University, Bhubaneshwar. corporate level. Before becoming the CFO, he held
Other Directorships the position of the Corporate Financial Controller
of the Company, and prior to that, he was
Name of the entity Position
Executive Vice President - Corporate Finance in charge
ITC Hotels Limited # Chairperson & of the Corporate Treasury, Strategic Planning and
Non-Executive Director
Corporate Planning Functions of the Company.
ITC Infotech India Limited Chairperson & He has handled various aspects of finance including
Non-Executive Director Planning, Treasury, M&A, Accounting, Taxation, IT,
Investor Relations and business strategy. He has also
ITC Infotech Limited, UK * Chairperson &
served as a Member of the World Business Council for
Non-Executive Director
Sustainable Development CFO Network.
ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. * Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director Dutta is a Member of the CII National Committee on
Financial Reporting. During the year, he was honoured
Surya Nepal Private Limited * Chairperson &
with the ‘Group CFO of the Year - Large Enterprise Award’
Non-Executive Director
at the Economic Times CFO Awards 2025.
Indian School of Business Member, Governing
Other Directorships
Board and Executive
Board Name of the entity Position
Committee Membership of other entities Russell Credit Limited Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director
Name of the entity Committee Position
ITC Integrated Business Chairperson &
ITC Hotels Limited CSR and Chairperson
Services Limited Non-Executive Director
Sustainability
Committee Gold Flake Corporation Limited Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director
Nomination and Member
Remuneration Greenacre Holdings Limited Chairperson &
Committee Non-Executive Director
ITC Hotels Limited # Non-Executive Director
ITC Infotech India Limited Non-Executive Director
S. Dutta
ITC Infotech Limited, UK * Non-Executive Director
Supratim Dutta (58), DIN: 01804345, was appointed
ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. * Non-Executive Director
as a Wholetime Director on the Board of ITC effective
July 22, 2022. He is also the Chief Financial Officer (‘CFO’) Surya Nepal Private Limited * Non-Executive Director
of the Company. He is, inter alia, responsible for Finance,
WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Non-Executive Director
Accounting, Internal Audit & IT Functions and also for the
Limited *
Investment Subsidiaries of the Company.
ITC Limited 3
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 22]
Your Directors
Committee Membership of other entities B. Sumant
Name of the entity Committee Position
Sumant Bhargavan (61), DIN: 01732482, was appointed
Russell Credit Limited Audit Committee Chairperson
as a Wholetime Director on the Board of ITC effective
CSR Committee Chairperson November 16, 2018. He oversees the Paperboards,
Nomination and Member Paper and Packaging as well as the Personal Care
Remuneration and Education & Stationery Products Businesses of
Committee the Company. He also oversees the TM&D Vertical and
ITC Infotech India Audit Committee Chairperson the Central Projects Organisation. Sumant, an alumnus
Limited Nomination and Member of the National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, joined
Remuneration ITC in January 1986, and has handled a wide range of
Committee responsibilities across several businesses.
Prior to his appointment as a Director on the Board of ITC,
Sumant was President - FMCG Businesses since
H. Malik
April 2016. Earlier, he was the Divisional Chief Executive
Hemant Malik (59), DIN: 06435812, was appointed
of ITD. He also held responsibility of the TM&D Vertical
as a Wholetime Director on the Board of ITC effective
as COO from November 2014 to March 2016 and as
August 12, 2023. He is also the Divisional Chief Executive
Chief Executive for a period of one year from
of the Foods Business Division of the Company.
October 2016. He spent his first 19 years with ITC in
After completing his B.A. (Hons.) in Economics from
Manufacturing operations of the Tobacco Division and
Delhi University and M.B.A. from the Indian Institute of
has worked in four production units as well as at the
Management, Calcutta, he joined ITC in June 1989 from
the campus and has more than 35 years of experience Head Office. In October 2004, he moved to the
across multiple businesses of ITC, including Tobacco & Foods Business and set up the Snack Food category
Foods, and the TM&D Vertical. under the brand name ‘Bingo!’. He has led ITC Infotech
India Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC, as its
Prior to becoming the Divisional Chief Executive of the
Foods Business Division in October 2016, Malik was the Managing Director from September 2009 to October 2014,
Chief Executive of the TM&D Vertical from April 2016. and has been on the Boards of ITC Infotech’s
He headed the All India Tobacco Sales function in 2001. wholly owned subsidiaries in the UK and the USA.
He later assumed charge as the Head of Marketing of
Sumant has also been on the Boards of Surya Nepal
the then nascent Foods Business in April 2002, where he
Private Limited and The Tobacco Institute of India.
was instrumental in the launch and development of some
He presently serves as a Member of the CII Eastern
of the key food brands of ITC including ‘Aashirvaad’,
Region Council.
‘Sunfeast’, ‘Bingo!’, ‘YiPPee!’ and ‘Kitchens of India’.
He was then given the responsibility to set up the new Other Directorships
FMCG TM&D Vertical and was made the COO of TM&D
Name of the entity Position
in April 2008. He thereafter took over as the COO of
Cigarette Brands and Supply Chain, India Tobacco Division
ITC Fibre Innovations Chairperson &
(‘ITD’), in August 2012, and was elevated as the
Limited Non-Executive Director
Divisional Chief Executive of ITD in August 2015.
The Tollygunge Club Member,
Malik is the Chairman of the Food Processing Committee
Limited General Committee
of FICCI.
Malik does not hold directorship in any other entity. Committee Membership of other entities: Nil
4 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 23]
Your Directors
H. Bhargava Committee Membership of other entities (Contd.)
Name of the entity Committee Position
Hemant Bhargava (65), DIN: 01922717, was appointed
as an Independent Director on the Board of ITC UGRO Capital Limited Audit Committee Chairperson
effective December 20, 2021. Nomination and Member
Remuneration
Bhargava holds a Post Graduate Degree in Economics
Committee
from Lucknow University and has also completed
Masters in Financial Management from the Jamnalal Bajaj
Institute of Management Studies. He began his career
A. M. Bharucha
in 1981 with the Life Insurance Corporation of India (‘LIC’)
Alka Marezban Bharucha (68), DIN: 00114067, joined
as its youngest Direct Recruit Officer and rose
the ITC Board as an Independent Director effective
through the ranks to become the Chairman-in-charge and
August 12, 2023.
Managing Director of LIC in January 2019. In the same year,
A Senior Partner at Messrs. Bharucha & Partners,
he was also appointed as the Non-Executive Chairman
Advocates & Solicitors, Mumbai, she chairs the
of IDBI Bank Limited and LIC Housing Finance Limited.
Transactions Practice and her core areas of legal
During his career of 38 years, he has held a wide range of
expertise include mergers & acquisitions, joint ventures,
leadership roles both in India and overseas, gaining
private equity and banking & finance. She completed her
extensive experience across Marketing, International
B.A. (Hons.) and L.L.B. from the University of Bombay
Operations and new business ventures. He has
and Masters in Law from the University of London.
successfully led teams across the financial services
She is a Solicitor with the High Court of Mumbai and
spectrum and pioneered innovative marketing and
Supreme Court of England and Wales, and also an
sales campaigns. He also served on the Board of the
Advocate on Record with the Supreme Court of India.
Company from July 2018 to August 2021.
She began her career with Mulla & Mulla and
Other Directorships Craigie Blunt & Caroe and joined Amarchand &
Mangaldas as a Partner in 1992. In 2008, she co-founded
Name of the entity Position
Bharucha & Partners, which in the past has been
SMC Global Securities Independent Director ranked by RSG Consulting, London, amongst the top
Limited #
law firms in India. With over 30 years of experience,
UGRO Capital Limited # Independent Director she has been ranked by Chambers Global, Legal 500
and Who’s Who Legal amongst India’s leading lawyers.
Wealth Company Asset Independent Director
Other Directorships
Management Holdings Private
Limited Name of the entity Position
Providence Life Limited, PCC, Non-Executive Director UltraTech Cement Limited # Independent Director
Mauritius *
Hindalco Industries Limited # Independent Director
Committee Membership of other entities
Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance Independent Director
Company Limited #
Name of the entity Committee Position
Orient Electric Limited # Independent Director
SMC Global Securities Audit Committee Member
Limited The India Cements Limited # Independent Director
ITC Limited 5
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025