[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 390-392

[PAGE 390]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
Principle 7
Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible
and transparent.
Essential Indicators
1 a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/ associations.
ITC’s Policy on Responsible Advocacy (https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/sustainability-policy.aspx) provides
the framework for necessary interface with Government/Regulatory Authorities on matters concerning various sectors
in which the Company operates. The Company’s engagement with the relevant authorities is guided by the values
of commitment, integrity, transparency and the need to balance the interests of diverse stakeholders. The Company
works with apex industry institutions that are engaged in policy advocacy as well as various other forums. The Company
had active affiliations with 89 such trade and industry chambers/associations.
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/ associations (determined based on the total members of such body)
the entity is a member of/ affiliated to.
S. No. Name Of The Trade And Industry Reach Of Trade And Industry Chambers/
Chambers/Associations Associations (State/National)
1 ASSOCHAM National
2 All India Management Association National
3 Confederation of Indian Industry National
4 Madras Management Association State
5 Indian Merchants Chamber of Commerce National
6 Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries & Agriculture State
7 PHD Chamber of Commerce & Industry National
8 Bombay Management Association State
9 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry National
10 Retailers Association of India National
XLIII

[PAGE 391]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
The Company has not engaged in any anti-competitive conduct.
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity.
S. Public Policy Method Resorted For Whether Frequency Of Web Link,
No. Advocated Such Advocacy Information Review By Board If Available
Available In (Annually/Half-
Public Domain? Yearly/Quarterly/
(Yes/No) Others – Please
Specify)
1. The Company’s Policy The Company works with For more details, Annual -
on Responsible apex industry institutions refer to ‘Report of
Advocacy approved that are engaged in the Board
by the Board provides policy advocacy, like the of Directors &
the framework for Confederation of Indian Management
necessary interface Industry, Federation Discussion and
with Government/ of Indian Chambers of Analysis’ section
Regulatory Authorities Commerce & Industry, forming part of
on matters concerning Associated Chambers of ITC’s Report and
various sectors in Commerce and Industry Accounts 2025.
which the Company of India, and various
operates. other forums including
Sector-wise matters regional Chambers of
taken up are in line Commerce.
with national priorities
The Company’s
to strengthen
engagement with the
domestic industry,
relevant authorities is
promoting sustainable
guided by the values of
agriculture and
commitment, integrity,
business practices.
transparency and taking
into consideration
interests of all
stakeholders.
Principle 8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year.
Name And Brief SIA Date Of Whether Results Relevant
Details Of Project Notification Notification Conducted By Communicated Web Link
No. Independent In Public
External Domain
Agency (Yes/No)
(Yes/No)
Not Applicable
XLIV

[PAGE 392]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken
by your entity.
S. No. Name Of State District No. Of Project % Of PAFs Amount
Project For Affected Covered By Paid To PAFs
Which R&R Families R&R In The FY
Is Ongoing (PAFs) (In INR)
Not Applicable
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress 5. Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid
grievances of the community. to persons employed (including employees or workers
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract
Details on mechanisms to receive and redress grievances
basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost.
of the community are provided under Question 25 (of
Section A). Location FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Rural 14 % 15 %
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs
by value) sourced from suppliers. Semi-urban 10 % 11 %
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Urban 18% 19%
Metropolitan 57% 54%
Directly sourced from 29.72% 25.76%
MSMEs/small producers Note: Pertains to permanent employees and workers of the Company.
There is a reclassification of one site leading to re-statement
Directly from within India 92.86% 92.48%
of data for the previous reporting period.
Note: The above data point does not include information for The above data point does not include information for Hotels
Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed
disclosed separately as a part of the Exhibit-A. separately as a part of the Exhibit-A.
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Not Applicable
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as
identified by government bodies:
State Aspirational District Amount (Rs. In Lakhs)
Telangana Bhadradri Kothagudem 2,170.16
Uttarakhand Haridwar 526.86
Madhya Pradesh Vidisha 294.46
Assam Darrang 273.30
Odisha Malkangiri 267.66
Rajasthan Jaisalmer 263.61
Rajasthan Baran 193.08
Bihar Begusarai 182.89
Odisha Koraput 154.42
Uttar Pradesh Bahraich 146.54
Chhattisgarh Sukma 110.00
Haryana Nuh 97.93
Bihar Muzaffarpur 90.40
Multiple* (12 states) Multiple* 839.76
*Spends in balance 50 Aspirational Districts of the total 63 where ITC had CSR project spends
XLV