[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 70-72

[PAGE 70]
Report of the Board of Directors
chosen categories, which are largely characterised by and newer routes to market, smart buying & value
low household penetration levels and/or low per capita engineering and smart manufacturing. Investments over
consumption, offer significant headroom for long-term the years in several state-of-the-art Integrated Consumer
growth. This is borne out by several reports which Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities (ICMLs) have
highlight that your Company’s total addressable market laid a strong foundation to drive structural advantages
expansion potential is amongst the highest in the Indian such as economies of scale and scope, ensuring product
FMCG space. In this context, it is noteworthy that a key freshness, enhancing agility and responsiveness of
element of your Company’s growth strategy is to foray the supply chain, reducing cost of servicing proximal
into value-added adjacencies and categories of the future markets through lower distance-to-market, etc. Capacity
by leveraging the 25+ powerful mother brands it has utilisation at the 11 operational ICMLs continues to be
established over the years. Recent examples of such brand ramped up along with focused smart manufacturing
extensions include Aashirvaad to Dairy, Ready-to-Eat, interventions leveraging automation and Industry 4.0
Vermicelli, Rava, Besan, Indian breads, Salt and Spices; technologies to drive operational efficiencies, yield and
Sunfeast to Dairy Beverages and Cakes; Bingo! energy management and further enhance safety and
to Namkeens; ITC Master Chef to Frozen Snacks and quality. With growing scale, supply chain operations are
Cooking pastes; Classmate to Writing instruments; being increasingly delayered through direct-to-market
Savlon to Sanitisers, Wipes and Disinfectant sprays shipments, thereby reducing freight costs and eliminating
etc. Simultaneously, the FMCG Businesses continue to multiple handling. Your Company is confident that these
make strategic investments in building categories of the strategic interventions which are already delivering
future and establishing your Company’s ‘right to win’ substantial benefits will realise their full potential over the
by progressively scaling up nascent categories where medium term and continue to create long-term value.
beachheads have been created. In line with the
Your Company continues to counter the impact of
ITC Next Strategy of building a future-ready portfolio,
inflationary headwinds through proactive measures across
accelerating growth and enhancing competitiveness,
all nodes of operations and deliver competitively superior
several value accretive acquisitions were announced
performance leveraging its institutional strengths and
during the year viz. M/s. Sresta Natural Bioproducts
harnessing advantages of scale, smart buying initiatives
(24 Mantra Organic Foods), Mother Sparsh Baby Care
and world-class talent in a consumer-centric, agile and
(Mother Sparsh) and Ample Foods (Prasuma & Meatigo).
innovative manner.
These interventions are expected to augment your
Company’s presence and market standing in high-growth Notwithstanding the short-term challenges, the
and future-facing businesses. structural drivers of long-term growth such as rising
disposable incomes and consumer awareness, low
The FMCG Businesses continue to expand their export
levels of penetration of consumer goods, favourable
footprint leveraging the equity of their world-class brands –
demographics, increasing urbanisation and growing
with a reach now spanning over 70 countries. Your Company
preference for trusted brands remain firmly in place. Your
is also exploring strategic opportunities in proximal
Company remains confident of rapidly scaling up its FMCG
markets as a potential vector of growth going forward.
Businesses on the back of a strong future-ready portfolio
The FMCG Businesses continue to create structural powered by purpose-led brands, world-class quality, deep
competitive advantages and enhance profitability by consumer insights, cutting-edge innovation and an agile,
leveraging world-class distributed manufacturing and resilient and efficient supply chain. Your Company’s
logistics infrastructure, multi-channel distribution network institutional strengths – strong backward linkages with the
In line with the ITC Next Strategy of building a future-ready portfolio, accelerating growth and
enhancing competitiveness, several value accretive acquisitions were announced during the year
viz. M/s. Sresta Natural Bioproducts (24 Mantra Organic Foods), Mother Sparsh Baby Care
(Mother Sparsh) and Ample Foods (Prasuma & Meatigo). These interventions are expected to augment
your Company’s presence and market standing in high-growth and future-facing businesses.
52 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 71]
Report of the Board of Directors
Agri Business, deep and wide multi-channel distribution each of your Company’s branded packaged food products
network, cuisine knowledge resident in ITC Hotels Limited is manufactured in HACCP/ISO-certified manufacturing
(a group entity), industry-leading packaging knowhow and locations ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and
access to robust R&D platforms nurtured by LSTC – will adherence to the highest quality norms.
continue to be leveraged to serve as unique sources of
– In the Staples Business, ‘Aashirvaad’ delivered robust
competitive advantage for the FMCG Businesses.
growth on an elevated base, consolidating its market
leadership position. The value-added Atta portfolio,
Branded Packaged Foods
consisting of Multigrain, Select and Sugar Release
The Branded Packaged Foods industry witnessed severe Control Atta posted healthy growth driven by superior
headwinds during the year due to subdued consumer value proposition. Millet products (‘Atta with Millets’,
demand and unprecedented inflationary pressure ‘Gluten Free Flour’, ‘Ragi Flour’), Organic portfolio
across several key inputs viz. edible oil, wheat, maida, (‘Organic Atta’ and ‘Organic Dals’), ‘Aashirvaad
potato, cocoa, packaging inputs etc. In this backdrop, Vermicelli’, ‘Aashirvaad Rava’ (Suji Rava, Bansi Rava,
your Company sustained its position as one of India’s Samba Rava) and ‘Ready to Cook Chapati’ continued
largest and fastest growing branded packaged foods to witness strong growth. ‘Aashirvaad Besan’,
businesses, leveraging a robust portfolio of brands, with the unique proposition of smooth & lump-free
a slew of first-to-market products, regionally curated batter, was extended to more markets and continues
offerings, supported by an efficient supply chain and to scale up rapidly. With the objective of catering to
distribution network. regional preferences, a differentiated range of Atta
was launched in Mumbai (‘Premium MP Sehori’,
The Branded Packaged Foods Businesses remain
‘MP Sehori’, ‘MP Lokwan’ and ‘Khapli’ variants).
focused on addressing emerging consumer preferences
The Vermicelli range was expanded with the
through innovations anchored on the vectors of health,
launch of ‘Roasted Short Vermicelli’ in Tamil Nadu.
nutrition, wellness, immunity, naturals, indulgence and
‘Aashirvaad Soya Chunks’, with the proposition of
convenience. Several innovative and first-to-market
‘Juicy and Tasty’ as the differentiator was launched
products were launched during the year, leveraging
and has seen positive consumer response. With
your Company’s institutional strengths including superior
superior product development, purposeful marketing
consumer insights, innovation capabilities of the
inputs, consumer activations and region-specific
Life Sciences and Technology Centre (LSTC) and cuisine
interventions supported by manufacturing excellence
expertise resident in ITC Hotels Limited, a group entity.
and sharply targeted media investments, especially
While fortifying core portfolio, the Businesses continued to
across digital platforms, your Company is confident
scale-up presence in value-added adjacencies leveraging
of further fortifying Aashirvaad’s position as a
powerful mother brands and invest in categories of
preferred ‘centre-of-plate’ choice amongst Indian
the future.
households, catering to all future-ready ‘staple’ needs
Relentless focus on delivering superior quality products of consumers.
to consumers continues to be a key source of sustainable
‘Aashirvaad Salt’ continued to post robust growth
competitive advantage for the Branded Packaged Foods
in focus markets during the year, supported by its
Businesses. In this context, the Businesses continue to
distinctive positioning of “Iodine Assured salt for a
leverage the agri-commodity sourcing expertise resident
Smarter India”.
in your Company’s Agri Business to procure high quality
raw materials, thereby ensuring the highest level of In the Spices category, your Company continued to
quality, consistency and safety in its products. In addition, deliver strong growth with its endeavour to provide
Your Company sustained its position as one of India’s largest and fastest growing
branded packaged foods businesses, leveraging a robust portfolio of brands,
a slew of first-to-market products, regionally curated offerings, supported by
an efficient supply chain and distribution network.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 53

[PAGE 72]
Report of the Board of Directors
consumers unique and personalised experiences the Indian diaspora. SNBPL’s vertically integrated
that meet their taste preferences and reflect regional supply chain promotes sustainable livelihoods for
flavours and ethos. During the year, the Business its network of appx. 27,500 farmers spread across
grew on the back of distribution expansion in focus appx. 1.4 lakh acres of certified organic land in
states, sharp region-specific communication, and 10 states. The strong network of farmers and
an enhanced portfolio with innovative new offerings. certified organic sourcing capability are key sources
of competitive advantage for the company. The
The ‘Sunrise’ brand strengthened its market
acquisition reinforces your Company’s commitment
leadership position in the core market of West Bengal
to build a portfolio of future-facing winning brands that
and made significant gains in newer launch markets of
addresses the evolving needs of Indian consumers
the Northeast region and Bihar. The brand continued
and will unlock value creation opportunities by
to delight consumers by introducing unique and
leveraging your Company’s institutional strengths to
differentiated products catering to regional tastes and
drive synergies in areas such as product development
preferences, such as ‘Sunrise Soya Curry Masala’,
& innovations, sourcing, manufacturing, supply chain
‘Sunrise Chinese Fried Rice Masala’, ‘Sunrise
and distribution.
Schezwan Masala’ and augmenting the portfolio with
novel products such as ‘Sunrise Peri Peri Masala’ & – The Biscuits category witnessed resilient performance
‘Sunrise Restaurant Magic Masala’ for new age amidst a challenging operating environment. The
Business continues to strengthen its core portfolio with
consumers. ‘Aashirvaad Spices’ continues to enhance
investments behind powerful brand ideas, superior
its presence in new gen channels and core markets
products, cultural marketing with local insights and
to enable a full portfolio play along with expansion
unique innovations to drive growth. The ‘Sunfeast Dark
of the blended portfolio. The brand’s range of whole
Fantasy’ range of differentiated cookies sustained its
spices, launched in the previous year, also witnessed
leadership position in the premium segment. ‘Mom’s
rapid scale-up across online platforms. Aashirvaad
Magic’ range of cookies witnessed healthy growth
has appointed Natural Star Nani as the brand
during the year. The ‘Bounce’ range of cream biscuits
ambassador to strengthen the brand’s alignment with
was augmented with scale up of ‘Bounce Day & night’
cultural values such as the appreciation for cinema,
- a delicious dark choco biscuit with soft vanilla cream.
culinary traditions, and a profound connection to the
‘Sunfeast Supermilk’ biscuit harnessing the goodness
region’s unique customs and beliefs.
of ‘Naatu Maatu Paal’ continued to be scaled up in
On April 17, 2025, your Company signed a Share target markets. The portfolio mix was further enriched
Purchase Agreement to acquire 100% of the share with the launch of ‘Sunfeast Wowzers’, a 14-layered
capital of Sresta Natural Bioproducts Private Limited cracker enrobed with cream (currently available
(‘SNBPL’), an Indian company primarily engaged in Cheese and Lemon variants) and ‘Evening
Marie’ - a differentiated Marie with a savoury twist,
in the business of manufacture and sale of
in select markets. The Business also introduced a
organic packaged food products under the
portfolio of Super Premium Cookies under
‘24 Mantra Organic’ brand in the domestic as well as
‘Sunfeast Baked Creations’ with globally sourced
in international markets. SNBPL’s portfolio comprises
ingredients to leverage the advent of emerging niche
a wide range of 100+ organic products spanning
spaces in the Quick-commerce channel.
branded grocery staples, spices and condiments,
edible oils, beverages, etc. SNBPL has a strong Towards further deepening consumer engagement,
international presence with a deep connect with the brand launched several meaningful and
The ‘Sunrise’ brand strengthened its market leadership position
in the core market of West Bengal and made significant gains in
newer launch markets of the Northeast region and Bihar.
54 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025