[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 41-43

[PAGE 41]
Report on Corporate Governance
V. INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS COMMITTEE OTHER COMMITTEES
The statutory role of the Independent Directors Committee
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
of the Board is to review the performance of the
The role of the Risk Management Committee is, inter alia,
non-Independent Directors, including the Chairman of the
to approve the strategic risk management framework of
Company, and the Board, and also to assess the quality,
the Company, and review the risk mitigation strategies,
quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the
measures taken for cyber security and results of
Company management and the Board. risk identification, prioritisation & mitigation plans for all
business units / corporate functions. Formulation of the
Composition
Risk Management Policy and review of implementation,
The Independent Directors Committee comprises all the effectiveness and adequacy of the risk management
Independent Directors of the Company. plans, systems & processes of the Company form part of
the role of the Committee.
The names of the members of the Independent Directors
Committee are provided under the section ‘Board of
Composition
Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
The Risk Management Committee presently comprises
Meeting and Attendance during the financial year the Chairman of the Company, all Executive Directors,
2024-25 one Independent Director and one member of
senior management. The Chairman of the Company
Details of Independent Directors Committee Meeting
is the Chairman of the Committee. The Head of
One meeting of the Independent Directors Committee Internal Audit is an Invitee to the meetings of the
was held, as follows: Committee. The Chief Risk Officer is the Secretary to
the Committee.
Sl. Date Committee No. of Members
No. Strength present The names of the members of the Risk Management
Committee, including its Chairman, are provided below:
1 9th May, 2024 10 10
S. Puri Chairman
Attendance at Independent Directors Committee Meeting
H. Bhargava Member
Member Attendance at the Meeting
S. Dutta Member
H. Bhargava Yes
H. Malik Member
A. M. Bharucha Yes
B. Sumant Member
C. K. Mishra 1 N.A.
S. Sivakumar Member
S. Mukherjee Yes
Meetings and Attendance during the financial year
A. Nayak Yes
2024-25
N. Rao Yes
Details of Risk Management Committee Meetings
A. K. Seth Yes
Three meetings of the Risk Management Committee were
P. Subrahmanyam 2 Yes
held, as follows:
S. Banerjee 3 Yes
Sl. Date Committee No. of Members
A. Duggal 4 Yes
No. Strength present
M. Shankar 4 Yes
1 9th August, 2024 6 6
1. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 14th September, 2024.
2 18th January, 2025 6 5
2. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024.
3. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 30th July, 2024. 3 11th March, 2025 6 6
4. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 23

[PAGE 42]
Report on Corporate Governance
Attendance at Risk Management Committee Meetings SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
All subsidiaries of the Company are managed by their
Member No. of Meetings attended
respective Board of Directors in the best interest of
S. Puri 3
those companies and their shareholders. The annual
H. Bhargava 1 2 financial statements of the subsidiary companies are
S. Dutta 3 reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Company.
Performance review reports of the subsidiary companies
H. Malik 3
are placed before the Board of Directors of the Company
B. Sumant 3
on a half-yearly basis. The Minutes of Board Meetings of
S. Sivakumar 2
the subsidiary companies, including details of significant
A. Duggal 2 1 transactions & arrangements entered into by them, are
also placed before the Board of Directors of the Company.
1. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
2. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
The Company does not have any material
CORPORATE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE subsidiary. The Company’s Policy for determination
The primary role of the CMC is strategic management of a material subsidiary, as approved by the Board,
of the Company’s businesses within Board approved may be accessed on its corporate website at
direction / framework and realisation of Company goals. https://www.itcportal.com/material-subsidiary-policy .
The CMC, inter alia, formulates the Company’s Business
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR DIRECTORS
Plans and organisational policies, systems & processes,
reviews business performance against approved plans, ITC believes that a Board, which is well informed /
allocates resources, and operates under the strategic familiarised with the Company and its affairs, can
supervision of the Board.
contribute significantly to effectively discharge its role
of trusteeship in a manner that fulfils stakeholders’
Composition
aspirations and societal expectations. In pursuit of this,
The CMC presently comprises the Chairman of the
the Directors of the Company are updated on material
Company, all Executive Directors and three members of
changes / developments in the domestic / global corporate
senior management. The Chairman of the Company is the
and industry scenario including those pertaining to statutes /
Chairman of the Committee. The composition of the CMC
is determined by the Board on the recommendation legislations & economic environment, and on matters
of the Nomination & Compensation Committee. significantly affecting the Company to enable them to take
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the CMC. well informed and timely decisions. The Directors are also
kept abreast on all business related matters including
The names of the members of the CMC, including its
Chairman, are provided under the section ‘Board of risk assessment & minimisation procedures, CSR &
Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts. sustainability interventions, succession plans including
management development processes, and new initiatives
Meetings
proposed by the Company. Induction programme is
The CMC normally meets once a month. Minutes of
organised by the Company for the Non-Executive Directors
CMC Meetings are placed before the Board. Matters
joining the Board. Visits to Company facilities are also
requiring the Board’s attention / approval, as emanating
organised for the Directors from time to time.
from the CMC Meetings, are placed before the Board
Further details may be accessed on the Company’s
in the form of notes from / through the relevant
Executive Director, backed by comprehensive corporate website at https://www.itcportal.com/directors-
background information. familiarisation-programme .
24 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 43]
Report on Corporate Governance
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
Timely disclosure of consistent, comparable, relevant and reliable information on corporate financial performance is at the
core of good governance. Towards this end, the Company has taken the following initiatives:
Website
Communications with the investing community
The Company’s corporate website www.itcportal.com
provides comprehensive information on ITC’s portfolio of Detailed presentations to the investing community on the
businesses, CSR & sustainability initiatives, EHS performance, quarterly financial results are sent to the Stock Exchanges
shareholding pattern, key Company Policies and contact and also made available on the Company’s corporate website.
In addition, investor presentations on other major events
details of the employees responsible for assisting investors
such as acquisitions by the Company, demerger of
and handling investor grievances. An exclusive section on
Hotels Business etc. were also made available in the public
‘Investor Relations’ serves to inform and service Shareholders,
domain, through the websites of the Company and the
enabling them to access information at their convenience.
Stock Exchanges.
Annual Report
The Report and Accounts, including the Standalone and
Consolidated Financial Statements, the Report of the
Other disclosures / filings
Board of Directors and the Auditors’ Reports, is sent to the
Shareholders of the Company, and is also available on the A copy of the Chairman’s Speech delivered at the AGM is
Company’s corporate website. sent to the Shareholders and is also made available on the
Company’s corporate website. In addition, shareholding
The Report of the Board of Directors, forming part of the
pattern, material events and other important information
Report and Accounts, includes all aspects of Management
relating to the Company are submitted to the Stock Exchanges
Discussion and Analysis as required under the Listing Regulations.
and also made available on the Company’s website.
Financial Results
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results,
along with the Media Statement and presentation on the
Company’s financial performance, are sent to the Shareholders.
Media Releases
These documents along with FAQs on results are also
available on the Company’s corporate website. The ‘Media Centre’ section of the Company’s corporate
website includes all major media releases from the
Extracts of these results are published in ‘The Times of India’ /
Company and relevant media reports.
‘Business Standard’ & ‘Aajkaal’ from Kolkata, and on an all India
basis in major newspapers and also in ‘Luxemburger Wort’,
Luxembourg.
ITC CODE OF CONDUCT
The ITC Code of Conduct, as adopted by the Board, is
Declaration as required under the Listing Regulations
applicable to the Directors, senior management and
employees of the Company. The Code is derived from
three interlinked fundamental principles viz., good All Directors and senior management of the Company
corporate governance, good corporate citizenship have affirmed compliance with the ITC Code of Conduct
and exemplary personal conduct in relation to the for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
Company’s business and reputation. The Code covers
ITC’s commitment to CSR and sustainable development,
concern for occupational health, safety and environment, S. Puri
a gender friendly workplace, transparency and auditability, Chairman &
legal compliance, avoidance of conflict of interest, and the Kolkata, 22nd May, 2025. Managing Director
philosophy of leading by personal example. The Code is
available on the Company’s corporate website.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 25