[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 1-3

[PAGE 1]


[PAGE 2]
The mnemonic is a celebration of this year's theme, 'ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness'.
The green leaf depicts our overall sustainability philosophy, while the white arrowheads within it showcase our
successful strides in all three sectors of the economy — agriculture, manufacturing and services. The blue leaf speaks
of the innovation mindset that forms the bedrock of ITC's endeavours, and the white lines within it depict our
commitment to science, cutting-edge technologies and a foundation of continuous research and development.
The 11 petals on top represent the 11 thriving businesses of the ITC Group, powered by digital adoption across all
sectors, as seen in the semi-circular bands below them. The crest of the mnemonic depicts our focus on inclusion,
diversity and inspired talent.
stnetnoC
Contents are hyper-linked to the relevant pages of the report
Click 'ITC Limited' on the Header/Footer of each page to return
to Contents Page
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness i-xvi
Board of Directors and Committees 01
Your Directors 02
Report on Corporate Governance
(including Shareholder Information) 12
Report of the Board of Directors &
Management Discussion and Analysis 40
Secretarial Auditor's Report 130
CEO and CFO Compliance Certificate 137
Standalone Financial Statements
® Balance Sheet 138
® Statement of Profit and Loss 139
® Statement of Changes in Equity 140
® Statement of Cash Flows 142
® Notes to the Financial Statements 144
® Independent Auditor’s Report 210
Guide to Subsidiaries, Joint Ventures & Associates 222
Salient Features of the Financial Statements of Subsidiaries,
Joint Ventures & Associates (Form AOC-1) 225
Consolidated Financial Statements 231
Ten Years at a Glance 328
Financial Highlights
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report I-LX
ITC Infotech: Business Friendly Solutions
Creating Enduring Institutions
Awards & Accolades

[PAGE 3]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
The world we live in is marked by challenges Transfer Agreement was signed to acquire Century Pulp &
emanating from geo-political conflicts, uncertainties in Paper. These new vectors offer strong strategic fit and
global trade and the accelerating climate crisis. complement ITC's portfolio while offering significant
Compounding this is the unprecedented rate of digital headroom for growth.
advancement. These factors are redefining the
Resilient Supply Chains ITC has built agile and resilient
competitive landscape, compelling enterprises to
supply chains anchored in local agri sourcing and
reframe strategies to stay future-ready.
strategically located manufacturing hubs. The Company's
Recognising the challenges, the ITC Next strategy was Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics
articulated to scale the next horizon of competitiveness (ICMLs) facilities are icons of manufacturing excellence
and growth. Strong structural drivers have been put in and leverage smart manufacturing, automation and
place to unleash new vectors of growth. Industry 4.0 technologies to provide structural
competitiveness.
Future-ready Portfolio ITC's FMCG businesses
continue to build their future-ready portfolio of Harnessing Digital, Sustainability & Enterprise Strengths
differentiated products to address evolving needs of ITC is also investing in new vectors of growth at the
consumers. It has envisioned a three-horizon growth convergence of digital, sustainability and enterprise
strategy that focuses on enhancing its leadership in strengths. ITCMAARS, with Farmer Producer
core businesses, addressing adjacencies and nurturing Organisations at the centre, is empowering farmers
categories of the future. Through purposeful through personalised advisory, inputs and market
innovation, premiumisation and personalisation, the linkages. The Company's FoodTech services delivered
Company has strengthened its presence across through cloud kitchens synergise ITC's strengths in Foods
Branded Packaged Foods, Cigarettes, Personal Care and Hotels as well as its Digital capabilities.
Products, Education & Stationery Products, and
ITC has embraced a 'Digital First' culture, mainstreaming
Matches and Agarbattis.
digital adoption across operations. Under 'Mission
ITC's Agri Business is defining NextGen Agriculture DigiArc', a next-generation digital architecture is being
through ITCMAARS, the phygital ecosystem, Value- implemented across insighting, sourcing, manufacturing,
Added Agri Products and building climate-resilient trade marketing, logistics and consumer engagement.
value chains.
Sustainability 2.0 Reimagining sustainability under the
The Paperboards, Paper and Packaging Businesses are pressing challenges of climate change and social inequity,
expanding their sustainable solutions through ITC has implemented a Sustainability 2.0 agenda to scale
innovations that provide eco-friendly alternatives to the next horizon of climate action, livelihood generation
single-use plastics. ITC has reinforced its leadership in and community empowerment. ITC has also committed to
the Value-added Paperboard (VAP) segment by achieving 'Net Zero Operations' by 2050, which will entail
developing customised solutions for end-use decarbonisation of its Scopes 1 & 2 emissions.
industries.
Inspired Talent Recognising that talent is one of the most
Value-Accretive Acquisitions ITC is proactively important valuable assets in an organisation, ITC focuses on
exploring value-accretive inorganic opportunities as an nurturing world-class talent and developing professional
additional driver of growth. Several acquisitions were entrepreneurs with a growth mindset.
announced recently, including Ample Foods (Prasuma
The following pages provide a glimpse into how ITC is
and Meatigo), M/s. Sresta Natural Bioproducts (24
enhancing its competitiveness, building resilience and
Mantra Organic Foods) and Mother Sparsh. A Business
unleashing new growth drivers.
i