[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 82-84

[PAGE 82]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company’s multi-channel distribution network, which development activities and further enhancements to
facilitates availability of its products in nearly seven million the digital ecosystem for the stockist channel. These
retail outlets of which more than one-third are serviced initiatives have substantially enhanced the availability of
directly, was further strengthened during the year with the your Company’s range of products in rural markets.
addition of new markets and outlets to its direct servicing
The Food Service and Institutional channels continued to
base. Market coverage was stepped up by more than 2x of
witness robust growth during the year leveraging existing
pre-pandemic levels. TM&D’s wide and deep distribution
partnerships and your Company’s wide product range.
network and cutting-edge digital capabilities render the
Strategic partnerships unlocked new routes-to-market,
FMCG Businesses with significant competitive strength.
catering to specialised segments including ‘on-the-go’
In the General Trade channel, your Company continued consumption, direct marketing and QSRs. Customised
to demonstrate resilient performance through focused product portfolios continue to be deployed for identified
market approach and differentiated product assortment. high potential segments of railways, airports and airlines
During the year, urban markets witnessed heightened to strengthen presence in this channel.
competitive intensity from regional/local players and
TM&D remains at the forefront of leveraging cutting-edge
accelerated channel shift with the increasing salience
digital technologies and building a digital ecosystem to
of Modern Trade, e-Commerce and Quick Commerce.
draw actionable insights for sharp-focused interventions,
Automation, data-led insighting and machine-learning
augment sales force capability, drive productivity, improve
enabled solutions continue to be increasingly leveraged
market servicing and deepen connect with retailers.
to drive last mile productivity and performance across
Technology enablement in the form of customised mobility
markets. Further, emerging technologies like Generative
and routing solutions, machine learning algorithms,
AI are being increasingly leveraged to automate operations data science models, data analytics comprising insightful
and enhance efficiency. Customised servicing based on visualisation tools and predictive analytics are being
outlet potential and retail engagement programmes have increasingly leveraged to enable speedy and accurate
been deployed to stimulate demand for your Company’s data capture, enable real-time informed decision making
products with enhanced focus on premium grocery and aid in optimisation of trade & marketing inputs to
outlets. Specific interventions were undertaken to drive enhance visibility and sales. The machine learning
premiumisation in General Trade outlets with store level models have been augmented to sharpen outlet level SKU
missions led by sharper data analytics. recommendations. Use cases for self-service analytics
tools have increased to analyse data and present insights
In rural markets, your Company continued to deploy
which are digitally integrated into business decisions,
market-specific interventions to enhance direct coverage
resulting in intelligent digitalisation of business processes.
on the basis of socio-economic indicators and market
potential. This has been supported through a hub and The digitally powered eB2B platform of your Company,
spoke distribution model with the continued expansion of UNNATI, has been rapidly scaled up during the year,
rural stockists network to 1.4x over the last three years. covering nearly eight lakh outlets. UNNATI facilitates
Leveraging the synergies arising out of the deep rural sharp and direct engagement with retailers, superior
connect of your Company’s Agri Business, extensive analytics, personalised recommendations of hyperlocal
consumer activations were undertaken in high potential baskets based on consumer purchase insights, and
rural areas during the year aided by concerted market deeper brand engagement.
Your Company’s multi-channel distribution network, which facilitates availability of its
products in nearly seven million retail outlets of which more than one-third are serviced directly,
was further strengthened during the year. Market coverage was stepped up by
more than 2x of pre-pandemic levels. TM&D’s wide and deep distribution network and
cutting-edge digital capabilities render the FMCG Businesses with
significant competitive strength.
64 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 83]
Report of the Board of Directors
To cater to the digital payments and financing needs of Manufacturers (OEMs) and fleet aggregators facilitated
customers and retailers, your Company has entered into adoption of Electrical Vehicles (EV) in TM&D operations.
strategic collaborations with banks and Fintech partners. The number of EV trips increased by 3x over the
These solutions have been seamlessly integrated with previous year.
the UNNATI platform to digitally empower and unlock
TM&D’s distribution highway is a source of sustainable
business growth for your Company’s trade partners.
competitive advantage for your Company’s FMCG
The scale and diversity of your Company’s distribution Businesses and is well-positioned to support the rapid
network remains pivotal in enhancing market presence, scale-up of operations in the ensuing years leveraging
gaining valuable insights into consumer & trade behaviour its best-in-class systems and processes, an agile and
and facilitating the execution of product launches responsive supply chain, and a synergistic relationship
across geographies. In order to effectively leverage new with its channel partners.
routes-to-markets and meet the assortment needs of
PAPERBOARDS, PAPER AND PACKAGING
new gen channels, your Company executed over
100 new product launches across target markets besides Paperboards & Specialty Papers
extending the availability of several existing products
After achieving record highs in FY 2022-23, the domestic
in the portfolio.
industry has faced significant challenges over the past two
Several interventions were undertaken by TM&D during years. The industry contended with a difficult operating
the year to drive structural improvement in operational environment, characterised by low-priced supplies of
effectiveness and productivity. During the year, your paperboards and paper from China and Indonesia in
Company continued to leverage the integrated planning global markets, including India, as well as weak demand
and supply chain tool, powered by best-in-class algorithms conditions, resulting in subdued realisations.
for inventory optimisation and productivity enhancement On the inputs front, wood prices witnessed sharp
to significantly improve supply chain agility and market escalation during the year, with wood availability and
servicing through enhanced forecast accuracy. The quality being significantly sub-optimal on account of
supply chain network was redesigned to enhance the lower plantations during the pandemic period and higher
premium portfolio availability both in existing and target demand from competing Wood Based Industries (WBI).
markets across urban and rural markets. TM&D continues
The cumulative impact of subdued realisations, excess
to augment warehousing infrastructure leveraging
supply in domestic markets led by unprecedented
cutting-edge technologies to cater to the growing scale of
increase in low-priced imports into India from China,
your Company’s FMCG Businesses.
Indonesia etc., sharp surge in wood costs, and
In line with your Company’s commitment to the currency-led volatility exerted pressure on margins during
‘Triple Bottom Line’, TM&D continued to focus its efforts the year. The Business was able to partially mitigate
for adoption of renewable energy sources in its operations. the impact of these challenges by leveraging structural
As part of your Company’s Sustainability 2.0 agenda, advantages of the integrated business model, stepped-up
TM&D is rapidly expanding its Green Logistics efforts for end-user engagements, Digital interventions and
mid mile and last mile deliveries in key cities across the increase in salience of exports and Plastic substitution
country. Collaborations with multiple Original Equipment (PlaSub) products.
As part of your Company’s Sustainability 2.0 agenda, TM&D is rapidly expanding its
Green Logistics efforts for mid mile and last mile deliveries in key cities across the country.
Collaborations with multiple Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and fleet aggregators
facilitated adoption of Electrical Vehicles (EV) in TM&D operations. The number of
EV trips increased by 3x over the previous year.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 65

[PAGE 84]
Report of the Board of Directors
The Business has also undertaken several initiatives to proximity to key raw material sources, mitigate operational
address the challenges of wood availability and surge in risks through multi-site operations and enhance resilience
costs, including inter alia, opportunity based wood imports, across industry cycles through portfolio diversification.
evaluation of leased plantation models, and acceleration The Business expects to drive structural improvement
in plantations in collaboration with industry stakeholders. in profitability of CPP through several value unlock
Your Company is pioneering a first ever initiative in interventions such as capacity debottlenecking, product
quality upgrade, efficiency improvement leveraging
Indian Wood Based Industry using satellite imaging for
TPM/Digital initiatives, supply chain optimisation, costs
plantation monitoring and wood assessment to monitor
and procurement efficiencies. The acquisition is also
pulpwood plantations and assess future harvestable
expected to strengthen the market standing of your
wood quantity available in various catchments.
Company’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business
The Business sustained its leadership position in the and engender new opportunities in the domestic and
Value-Added Paperboard (VAP) segment through focused international markets. The acquisition aligns with your
innovations and development of customised solutions Company’s strategy of driving the next horizon of growth
for end-use industries. The Business also consolidated in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business by
its leadership position in the eco-labelled products and expanding capacity at a new location considering that
premium recycled paperboards segments. the existing facilities are already saturated. The strong
linkages to afforestation and livelihood creation pursued
During the year, the Specialty Papers segment witnessed
by both the entities will also contribute meaningfully to
robust growth driven by capacity augmentation in
national priorities.
Décor paper. Market standing in the segment continues
The paperboards and packaging industry is poised
to be driven by product mix enrichment and diversification
for transformative change in the medium term.
of the customer base. The domestic industry remained
Customers are increasingly seeking solutions that are
under pressure due to cheap supplies from China.
bio-degradable, substitute single use plastic and meet
The levy of Anti-dumping duty on Décor paper has
stakeholder & regulatory expectations across industries
partially provided a level playing field for domestic industry,
including food serving & delivery, pharmaceutical, beauty
which is critical towards fostering domestic value chains
and electronics.
and enabling import substitution.
The Business has adopted a multi-tiered strategy to
During the year, your Company signed a Business Transfer
build solutions that will replace single use plastics and
Agreement to acquire the Pulp and Paper Undertaking
meet emergent consumer needs. Within the sustainable
(‘CPP’) of Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited (‘ABREL’) at
products portfolio – ‘Platform 1’ comprises a range of
Lalkuan (Nainital, Uttarakhand). Commissioned in 1984,
recyclable, compostable and barrier coated boards and
CPP is a well-established player in the Indian Paper
includes the ‘Filo’ series - ‘FiloBev’ (for beverage cups),
industry with an installed capacity of 4.8 Lakh tonnes
‘FiloServe’ (for QSR, bakeries, food retail) & ‘FiloPack’
per annum. CPP is a one-of-a-kind asset with a strong
(packaging for sweets and deep freeze applications).
strategic fit with your Company’s Paperboards & Specialty ‘FiloBev Mini’ (for economic cup variant for short servings)
Papers Business. The acquisition (which is expected to was developed during the year and has quickly gained
be completed in about six months) will immediately add market share in focus markets. The Filo series has
significant scale and economies to existing operations been certified compostable by the Central Institute of
with potential for further capacity expansion, provide Petrochemicals Engineering & Technology (CIPET) and the
locational advantage for efficient customer servicing and manufacturing unit at Bollaram has been registered as a
Your Company signed a Business Transfer Agreement to acquire
the Pulp and Paper Undertaking (‘CPP’) of Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited (‘ABREL’).
CPP is a one-of-a-kind asset with a strong strategic fit with your Company’s
Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business.
66 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025