[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 59-61

[PAGE 59]
Report of the Board of Directors
Structural support would need to be provided to sectors In this regard, the Government’s focus on promoting Farmer
with potential for large economic-multiplier impact. Producer Organisations (FPOs) holds immense potential
In this regard, the development of robust domestic agri to catalyse agricultural transformation by leveraging
and wood-based value chains hold special importance economies of scale, enabling sustainable agriculture,
in the Indian context, given their enormous potential to supporting market-led production and creating larger
contribute to national objectives. market access. Government interventions encouraging
private and public investment in post-harvest activities
India is amongst the leading producers in the world of
including aggregation, modern storage, efficient supply
several agri-commodities, including milk, rice, wheat,
chain, primary and secondary processing, marketing
sugarcane, cotton, pulses, spices and fruits & vegetables.
and branding, along with measures to harness the power
India’s agri exports have witnessed strong performance
of agri-tech across the agri value chain are steps in the
in recent years; touching a peak of US$ 53 billion in
right direction and will go a long way in unlocking the full
FY 2022-23, moderating to US$ 50 billion in FY 2024-25
potential of the agri sector.
due to trading restrictions on agri-commodities amidst
concerns over food security and inflation on the back of Your Company has adopted targeted collaborative
geopolitical tensions and climate emergencies. However, models to multiply the scale and impact of its agri and rural
India’s share of global agri-trade remains low at only interventions. This collaborative approach, as opposed
about 3%. Enhancing agricultural productivity and value to a traditional transactional approach, can contribute
addition to international standards, while simultaneously meaningfully towards building next generation agriculture
improving market linkages, remain critical to enhance that is climate resilient and capable of supporting gainful
competitiveness of the agri sector and drive significant livelihoods. Digitalisation of agriculture also offers the
increase in farmers’ income. potential to increase productivity and foster structural
changes across the value chain thereby enabling
The increasing severity and frequency of extreme
efficient use of resources. Your Company had launched
weather events such as droughts and floods pose
ITCMAARS (Metamarket for Advanced Agriculture and
enormous threats to the farm sector, making it imperative
Rural Services), that combines the power of cutting-edge
to strengthen climate resilience and adaptability of the
digital technologies with NextGen agri practices. This
agri-food sector. An exponential increase in crop
initiative continues to be scaled up rapidly and currently
production and productivity, backed by climate smart
covers over 2.1 million farmers and over 2,050 FPOs,
agriculture, will be critical in meeting the growing needs
across 11 states and over 18,000 villages. This ‘phygital’
of an increasing population as also in mitigating the
ecosystem continues to empower the farming community
potential risks. Evolving consumer preferences are also
and FPOs by delivering personalised and dynamic
driving a shift towards nutritious and sustainably sourced
advisory services as well as hyperlocal offerings including
food products. These developments accentuate the need
market linkages, agri inputs and credit enablement. Further
to enhance the competitiveness of agri value chains to
details on this transformative initiative are provided in the
cater to the fast-evolving market requirements. India,
Agri Business section of this report.
with its tremendous strengths in this sector, has a unique
opportunity to play a leading role in this global transition It is pertinent to note that a substantial quantum of food is
and in forging an eco-system of sustainable, regenerative wasted along the chain in India, depending on the season
and climate smart agriculture. and the inherent perishability of the crop. Higher levels of
Your Company’s ITCMAARS (Metamarket for Advanced Agriculture and Rural Services)
combines the power of cutting-edge digital technologies with NextGen agri practices.
Currently covers over 2.1 million farmers and over 2,050 FPOs,
across 11 states and over 18,000 villages.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 41

[PAGE 60]
Report of the Board of Directors
food processing in the economy can create a much larger activities in 27 Aspirational Districts across eight states,
pull for quality agri-commodities, thereby reducing farm started in July 2022. The multi-year project covering a wide
wastages and raising farm incomes. This would require range of activities, was successfully completed in the first
focused investments in developing product-specific quarter of the year, with the Government taking forward
climate-controlled infrastructure as well as in branded the farmer capability modules and the design elements of
products that benefit large agri-value chains. Corporate model villages promoted by your Company. The farmer
participation is essential not only to invest in requisite training modules prepared by your Company are now
infrastructure, but also to provide assured market linkages being used by district Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in all
to farmers. A strong focus on India’s food processing 27 districts. During the year, the KVKs themselves trained
sector can play a pivotal role in catalysing a large multiplier over 3,500 Government agricultural department officials
effect, leading to significant job creation, enhanced rural who in turn cascaded the training in over 9,500 villages.
incomes and sustainable management of food inflation. Agricultural departments are promoting 1,350 hub villages
in these districts for demonstration of best practices.
Similarly, the Agro-forestry sector, as a source of raw
material for wood-based industry, is woefully constrained Your Company is working towards developing community
by policies that not only impede job creation in India institutions, promoting women agriculturists, facilitating
but also promote avoidable imports. There is a need for cadre of women service providers like Pashu Sakhis,
appropriate policy interventions and regulatory changes Yojana Sakhis, and Krishi Sakhis and fostering nano and
at national level to utilise full potential of agro forestry in micro entrepreneurship through Agri-Business Centres
the country. and Self-Help Groups. Custom hiring centres for farm
mechanisation, post-harvest product management
Your Company’s interventions across operating segments
infrastructure and community managed seed banks
are aligned to the national priorities of enhancing
for self-reliance in quality seed material are also being
competitiveness of Indian agriculture and industry,
facilitated. Environmentally sustainable farm practices,
generating large-scale employment opportunities and
including zero-till sowing of wheat, direct seeding of rice,
supporting sustainable livelihoods, driving import
micro-irrigation and watershed development, continue to
substitution, creating national brands to maximise value
be promoted.
capture in India, increasing Indian agri exports and
promoting sustainable business practices. For instance, Your Company had earlier collaborated with CGIAR’s
‘ITC Mission Millets’, which leverages enterprise ‘Climate Change and Food Security Programme’ to
strengths in agriculture, food and hospitality to implement create a template for Climate Smart Villages (CSVs),
multi-dimensional interventions in this area, has resulted under the Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) programme.
in significant increase in awareness and demand for The template has since been further strengthened by
millets. Investments made by your Company continue to your Company basis the field experiences and now
be guided by the national objectives of ‘Make in India’ and covers over 7,000 villages across 12 states covering over
‘Doubling Farmers’ Income’ and the overarching theme 21.80 lakh acres, supporting farmers in the management
of ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ that seeks to make the country of risks arising from erratic weather events.
stronger, resilient and more competitive.
Including the acreage in CSVs, the Climate Smart
As reported in earlier years, your Company’s collaboration Agriculture (CSA) programme now covers over
with NITI Aayog, aimed at boosting agricultural and allied 31.70 lakh acres in 19 states. Further, as per the
The Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) programme
now covers over 31.70 lakh acres
in 19 states.
42 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 61]
Report of the Board of Directors
studies done by reputed ICAR - Agricultural Technology Your Company sustained its ‘AA’ rating by MSCI-ESG for
Application Research Institute, Kanpur, the CSA practices the seventh successive year - the highest amongst global
promoted in Rice and Wheat crops together have tobacco companies. Based on its ESG score as assessed
demonstrated reduction of costs up to 21%, improvement by S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA),
in yields up to 8% and consequently, increase in incomes your Company has also been included in the Dow Jones
up to 23% as compared to conventional practices. Sustainability Emerging Markets Index for the fifth year in
a row – a reflection of being a sustainability leader in the
In Kapurthala District, Punjab, your Company under its
industry and a recognition of its continued commitment to
flagship programme of ‘ITC Mission Sunehra Kal’ has,
people and planet.
over the last seven years, implemented solutions that
have effectively substituted the burning of paddy stubble Your Company is a pioneer in the green building
movement, with 17 buildings having received Platinum
by farmers. During the year, the programme covered
certification by USGBC (US Green Building Council)/IGBC
nearly 2.84 lakh acres with appx. 96% of the area
(Indian Green Building Council). To continuously reduce
(2.73 lakh acres) witnessing total stoppage of stubble
your Company’s energy footprint, green features continue
burning, thereby avoiding appx. 2.14 lakh tonnes of
to be integrated in all new and old constructions including
carbon release into the atmosphere.
manufacturing units, warehouses and office complexes.
Although India accounts for appx. 18% of the
In addition, your Company is spearheading the
world population, its share of natural resources is
implementation of Alliance for Water Stewardship
disproportionately low with only 2% of global land mass,
(AWS) Standard which is a credible, globally recognised
4% of freshwater resources and 2% of forest resources.
framework for ensuring sustainable water management
It is more critical than ever before to redouble efforts, both
within the wider water catchment context. The Kovai unit
at the national and corporate level, to fashion strategies
of your Company is the first site in India and the first paper
that foster sustainable, equitable and inclusive growth.
mill in the world to achieve the highest Platinum rating
It is your Company’s belief that businesses can bring
under the ‘Alliance for Water Stewardship Standards’.
about transformational change by pursuing innovative During the year, two of your Company’s units received the
business models that synergise the creation of sustainable AWS Platinum level certification. Till date, nine units of
livelihoods and the preservation of natural capital while your Company have achieved Platinum level certification
enhancing shareholder value. This ‘Triple Bottom Line’ under the AWS Standard. Your Company is in the process
approach to creating larger ‘stakeholder value’, as opposed of implementing the AWS Standard at other units in high
to merely focusing on uni-dimensional ‘shareholder value’ water stress areas and will progressively obtain AWS
creation, is the driving force that defines your Company’s certification for these sites.
sustainability vision and its growth path into the future.
Your Company continues to pursue a low carbon growth
Your Company is a global exemplar in ‘Triple Bottom Line’ strategy through extensive decarbonisation programmes
performance. The focus on creating unique business across its value chains whilst also developing adaptation
models that generate substantial livelihoods across the plans across its sites. Your Company is the only
value chains has led to your Company’s Businesses enterprise in the world of comparable dimensions to
supporting nearly nine million sustainable livelihoods, have achieved and sustained the three key global
many of whom belong to the weaker sections of society. indices of environmental sustainability of being
The focus on creating unique business models that generate substantial livelihoods
across the value chains has led to your Company’s Businesses supporting
nearly nine million sustainable livelihoods, many of whom
belong to the weaker sections of society.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 43