[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 165-167

[PAGE 165]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
profit or loss when the hedged item affects the Statement measurement of financial assets depends on such
of Profit and Loss. However, when the hedged item classification.
results in the recognition of a non–financial asset, Financial assets are classified as those measured at:
such gains / losses are transferred from equity (but not
(a) amortised cost, where the financial assets are held
as reclassification adjustment) and included in the initial
solely for collection of cash flows arising from payments
measurement cost of the non–financial asset.
of principal and / or interest.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income
instrument is derecognised, expires or is sold,
(FVTOCI), where the financial assets are held not only
terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies
for collection of cash flows arising from payments of
for hedge accounting. Any gains / losses recognised
principal and interest but also from the sale of such
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in
assets. Such assets are subsequently measured at fair
equity at that time remain in equity and is reclassified
value, with unrealised gains and losses arising from
when the underlying transaction is ultimately
changes in the fair value being recognised in other
recognised. When an underlying transaction is no longer
comprehensive income.
expected to occur, the gains / losses accumulated in
equity are recognised immediately in the Statement of (c) fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), where the
Profit and Loss. assets are managed in accordance with an approved
investment strategy that triggers purchase and sale
Investment in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint
decisions based on the fair value of such assets.
Ventures
Such assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in
are carried at cost less accumulated impairment, if any. the fair value, including interest income and dividend
income, if any, are recognised in ‘other income’ in the
Financial instruments, Financial assets, Financial
Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which they
liabilities and Equity instruments
arise.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when
Trade Receivables, Advances, Security Deposits, Cash
the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions
and cash equivalents etc. are classified for measurement
of the relevant instrument and are initially measured at fair
at amortised cost while investments may fall under any
value except for trade receivables that do not contain a
of the aforesaid classes. However, in respect of particular
significant financing component, which are measured at
investments in equity instruments that would otherwise
transaction price.
be measured at fair value through profit or loss, an
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the
irrevocable election at initial recognition may be made to
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial
present subsequent changes in fair value through other
liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities
comprehensive income.
measured at fair value through profit or loss) are added
Impairment: The Company assesses at each reporting
to or deducted from the fair value on initial recognition of
date whether a financial asset (or a group of financial
financial assets or financial liabilities. Purchase or sale of
assets) such as investments, trade receivables, advances
financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time
and security deposits held at amortised cost and financial
frame established by regulation or convention in the market
assets that are measured at fair value through other
place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade
comprehensive income are tested for impairment based
date, i.e., the date when the Company commits to purchase
on evidence or information that is available without undue
or sell the asset.
cost or effort. Expected credit losses are assessed and loss
Financial Assets allowances recognised if the credit quality of the financial
Recognition: Financial assets include Investments, Trade asset has deteriorated significantly since initial recognition.
Receivables, Advances, Security Deposits, Cash and cash Reclassification: When and only when the business
equivalents. Such assets are initially recognised at fair value model is changed, the Company shall reclassify all affected
or transaction price, as applicable, when the Company financial assets prospectively from the reclassification date
becomes party to contractual obligations. The transaction as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value
price includes transaction costs unless the asset is being through other comprehensive income or fair value through
fair valued through the Statement of Profit and Loss. profit or loss without restating the previously recognised
Classification: Management determines the classification gains, losses or interest and in terms of the reclassification
of an asset at initial recognition depending on the purpose principles laid down in the Ind AS relating to Financial
for which the assets were acquired. The subsequent Instruments.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 147

[PAGE 166]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Derecognition: Financial assets are derecognised when Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised
the right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired, when the Company performs its obligations to its customers
or has been transferred, and the Company has transferred and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership. recovery of the consideration is probable. The timing of such
Concomitantly, if the asset is one that is measured at: recognition in case of sale of goods is when the control over
(a) amortised cost, the gain or loss is recognised in the the same is transferred to the customer, which is mainly
Statement of Profit and Loss; upon delivery and in case of services, in the period in which
such services are rendered.
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income, the
cumulative fair value adjustments previously taken to Government Grant
reserves are reclassified to the Statement of Profit and
The Company may receive government grants that require
Loss unless the asset represents an equity investment,
compliance with certain conditions related to the Company’s
in which case the cumulative fair value adjustments
operating activities or are provided to the Company
previously taken to reserves are reclassified within
by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain
equity.
qualifying criteria.
Income Recognition: Interest income is recognised in the Government grants are recognised when there is
Statement of Profit and Loss using the effective interest reasonable assurance that the grant will be received upon
method. Dividend income is recognised in the Statement the Company complying with the conditions attached to the
of Profit and Loss when the right to receive dividend is grant. Accordingly, government grants:
established.
(a) related to or used for assets, are deducted from the
Financial Liabilities carrying amount of the asset.
Borrowings, trade payables and other financial liabilities (b) related to incurring specific expenditures are taken to
are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently the Statement of Profit and Loss on the same basis and
measured at amortised cost. Any discount or premium on in the same periods as the expenditures incurred.
redemption / settlement is recognised in the Statement of (c) by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain
Profit and Loss as finance cost over the life of the liability qualifying criteria are recognised in the Statement of
using the effective interest method and adjusted to the Profit and Loss as they become receivable.
liability figure disclosed in the Balance Sheet.
In the unlikely event that a grant previously recognised is
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is ultimately not received, it is treated as a change in estimate
extinguished, that is, when the contractual obligation is and the amount cumulatively recognised is expensed in the
discharged, cancelled or on expiry. Statement of Profit and Loss.
Offsetting Financial Instruments Dividend Distribution
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount Dividends paid (including income tax thereon, if any) are
is included in the Balance Sheet where there is a legally recognised in the period in which the interim dividends are
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and approved by the Board of Directors, or in respect of the final
there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the dividend when approved by the shareholders.
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Employee Benefits
Equity Instruments
Short-term employee benefits are expensed in the period
Equity instruments are recognised at the value of the in which the employee renders the related service on an
proceeds, net of direct costs of the capital issue. undiscounted basis. A liability is recognised for the amount
expected to be paid within twelve months, if the Company
Revenue
has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay the
Revenue is measured at the transaction price that the
same as a result of past service provided by the employee
Company receives or expects to receive as consideration
and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
for goods supplied and services rendered, net of returns
The Company makes contributions to both defined benefit
and estimates of variable consideration such as discounts
to customers. Revenue from the sale of goods includes and defined contribution schemes which are mainly
Excise Duties and National Calamity Contingent Duty administered through duly constituted and approved Trusts.
which are payable on manufacture of goods but excludes Provident Fund contributions are in the nature of defined
taxes such as VAT and Goods and Services Tax which are contribution scheme. In respect of employees who are
payable in respect of sale of goods and services. members of constituted and approved trusts, the Company
148 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 167]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
recognises contribution payable to such trusts as an expense if recommended by the Corporate Management Committee
including any shortfall in interest between the amount of and approved by the Audit Committee, decide not to seek
interest realised by the investment and the interest payable such recovery from:
to members at the rate declared by the Government of (a) wholly owned subsidiaries who need to conserve
India. In respect of other employees, provident funds are financial capacity to sustain their business and growth
deposited with the Government administered funds and
plans and to address contingencies that may arise,
recognised as expense.
taking into account the economic and market conditions
The Company makes contribution to defined contribution then prevailing and opportunities and threats in the
pension plan. The contribution payable is recognised as an competitive context.
expense, when an employee renders the related service.
(b) other companies not covered under (a) above, who
The Company also makes contribution to defined benefit need to conserve financial capacity to sustain their
pension and gratuity plan. The cost of providing benefits business and growth plans and where the quantum of
under the defined benefit obligation is calculated by reimbursement is not material - the materiality threshold
independent actuary using the projected unit credit method. being ` 5 Crores for each entity for a financial year.
Service costs and net interest expense or income is
Stock Appreciation Linked Reward (SAR) Plan
reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss. Gain or Loss
on account of remeasurements are recognised immediately Cash Settled SAR units are granted to eligible employees
through other comprehensive income in the period in which under the ITC Employee Cash Settled Stock Appreciation
they occur. Linked Reward Plan (‘ITC ESARP’), as may be decided by
the CMC / Nomination & Compensation Committee / Board.
The employees of the Company are entitled to compensated
leave for which the Company records the liability based on For such Cash Settled SAR units, a liability is initially
actuarial valuation computed using projected unit credit measured at fair value on the grant date and is subsequently
method. These benefits are unfunded. remeasured at each reporting period, until settled. The
fair value of ITC ESARP units granted is recognised as
Actual disbursements made under the Workers’ Voluntary
employee benefits expense in the Statement of Profit and
Retirement Scheme are accounted as revenue expenses.
Loss over the period in which the performance and / or
Employee Share Based Compensation service conditions are fulfilled for employees of the
Company. In case of ITC ESARP units granted to
Stock Options
employees on deputation and to employees of the group
Equity settled Stock Options are granted to eligible
companies, the Company generally recovers the fair value
employees under the ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes
of ITC ESARP units from the concerned group companies.
(‘ITC ESOS’), as may be decided by the Nomination &
Compensation Committee / Board. Further, eligible Leases
employees of the Company have been granted equity The Company assesses at contract inception whether a
settled Stock Options under the ITC Hotels Special Purpose contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains,
Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘ITCHL SP ESOS’), a lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified
in terms of the ‘Scheme of Arrangement between the asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
Company and ITC Hotels Limited, and their respective
Company as a Lessee
shareholders and creditors’.
Right-of-use (ROU) assets are recognised at inception of a
Under Ind AS, the cost of equity settled Stock Options is
contract or arrangement for significant lease components
recognised based on the fair value of Stock Options as on
at cost less lease incentives, if any. ROU assets are
the grant date.
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated
The fair value of Stock Options granted to the employees of depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
the Company is recognised as employee benefits expense The cost of ROU assets includes the amount of lease
in the Statement of Profit and Loss over the period in which liabilities recognised, initial direct cost incurred and lease
the performance and / or service conditions are fulfilled with a payments made at or before the lease commencement date.
corresponding credit in equity for ITC ESOS and recognised ROU assets are generally depreciated over the shorter of
as a financial liability for ITCHL SP ESOS. The fair value of the lease term and estimated useful lives of the underlying
Stock Options, net of recoveries, granted to employees on assets on a straight-line basis. Lease term is determined
deputation and to employees of the group companies is based on consideration of facts and circumstances that
considered as capital contribution / investment. create an economic incentive to exercise an extension
The Company generally recovers the fair value of Stock option, or not to exercise a termination option. Lease
Options from such group companies, as applicable. It may, payments associated with short-term leases (i.e., those
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 149