[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 67-69

[PAGE 67]
Report of the Board of Directors
packets of smuggled international brands of cigarettes The Honourable Karnataka High Court, by its judgement
or their diminutive size creates a perception in the in December, 2017, held the 85% pictorial warnings to
consumers’ mind that these illicit cigarettes are ‘safer’ than be factually incorrect and unconstitutional. Upon Special
domestic duty-paid cigarettes that carry the 85% pictorial Leave Petitions filed by the Government and others, the
warnings. The combination of low prices to consumers Honourable Supreme Court has stayed the judgment
due to tax evasion and the misleading perception created of the High Court. The cases are pending before the
by the absence of statutory pictorial warnings provides Honourable Supreme Court.
significant buoyancy to illicit cigarette volumes.
The extremely stringent regulations along with the
India is among the top three tobacco growing countries discriminatory and steep taxation on cigarettes have had
in the world. Tobacco plays a significant role in the Indian numerous negative, albeit unintended repercussions.
economy on account of its considerable contribution to the These include:
agricultural, industrial and export sectors 5. Illicit cigarette
– rapid growth in illicit cigarette volumes, which resulted
trade also has a deleterious impact on farmers and farm
in sub-optimisation of the revenue potential of the
workers engaged in the tobacco value chain.
tobacco sector and significant loss to the Exchequer.
It may be noted that several major tobacco producing It is estimated that on account of illicit cigarettes alone,
countries, including the USA, have established regulatory revenue loss to the Government is appx. ` 21000 crores
frameworks taking into consideration the economic per annum.
interests of their tobacco farmers. The punitive and
– widespread availability of illicit cigarettes and other
discriminatory taxation & regulatory regime on cigarettes
tobacco products of dubious quality and hygiene
in India over the years, has adversely affected the
to consumers at extremely affordable prices. As a
livelihood of Indian tobacco farmers with corresponding
result, despite accounting for 1/10th of the tobacco
gains to those countries that have opted for moderate
consumed in the country, duty-paid cigarettes
and equitable tobacco regulations. These developments
contribute more than 4/5th of the revenue generated
coupled with lower export incentives in India and relative
from the tobacco sector.
weakness of currencies in certain competing geographies
– a large component of tobacco consumption in the
have, in the past, had a debilitating impact on millions of
country, aggregating around 68%, remaining outside
livelihoods, dependent on the tobacco value chain in India.
the tax net.
However, recent stability in taxes on cigarettes backed by
deterrent actions of enforcement agencies has enabled – persistent negative impact on the livelihood of tobacco
the legal cigarette industry to partially combat illicit trade farmers and others dependent on tobacco. Studies
and claw back volumes, thereby improving demand for by the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI)
Indian tobaccos. indicate that on account of agro-climatic conditions,
there is no equally remunerative alternate crop that
As reported in earlier years, your Company and several
can be grown in the FCV tobacco growing regions of
other stakeholders had challenged the validity of the
the country.
pictorial and textual warning covering 85% of the
surface area of the packet prescribed under COTPA. Your Company continues to engage with policy makers for
a framework of pragmatic, equitable, non-discriminatory,
5 Report on Tobacco Control in India, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, GoI,
evidence-based regulations and taxation policies that
2004 (Jointly supported by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, USA
and the World Health Organisation). balance the economic imperatives of the country and
Recent stability in taxes on cigarettes backed by deterrent actions of
enforcement agencies has enabled the legal cigarette industry to
partially combat illicit trade and claw back volumes,
thereby improving demand for Indian tobaccos.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 49

[PAGE 68]
Report of the Board of Directors
tobacco control objectives, cognising for the unique tobacco As a testimony to the success of digital initiatives on
consumption pattern in India. Stability in taxes is critical to HR practices, the Business was honoured with the
address the interests of all stakeholders of this industry, prestigious CII National HR Award for Excellence in
including tobacco farmers, consumers and the Exchequer. Digital Practices.
Manufacturing facilities of the Business continue to set Your Company remains well positioned to fortify its
new benchmarks in the areas of quality, sustainability, market standing in the legal cigarette industry, leveraging
supply chain responsiveness and productivity, driven its superior strategies, integrated seed to smoke value
through investments in new technology induction, digital chain, future-ready portfolio, robust innovation pipeline,
technologies, innovation, and ensuring product & process cutting-edge manufacturing & digital technologies
excellence. Cutting-edge technologies in the areas of and best-in-class execution capabilities. A stable and
Industry 4.0 and Data Sciences are being leveraged to equitable taxation & regulatory regime remains critical to
build a smart manufacturing environment of connected enable the legal cigarette industry to claw back volumes
systems. These initiatives, coupled with innovative
from illicit trade, as also borne out by recent experience.
capabilities, in-house design and development expertise,
have further improved the speed-to-market for launch of FMCG – OTHERS
new and differentiated offers of the Business.
The FMCG - Others Segment delivered a resilient
It is extremely satisfying to report that your Company performance amidst subdued demand conditions
continues to be recognised for its operational excellence. and significant increase in competitive intensity from
The Bengaluru, Pune and Munger units won the local/regional players. Costs of several major inputs
‘Apex Prize for Operational Excellence’ at the Integrated such as edible oil, wheat, maida, potato and cocoa
Manufacturing Excellence Initiative (IMExI) Awards witnessed sharp escalation, especially in the second half
organised by Kaizen Hansei Institute, a wing of of the financial year, weighing on margins. The inflationary
Kaizen Institute of India. pressures were partially mitigated through focused cost
In line with your Company’s commitment to the management, portfolio premiumisation, supply chain
‘Triple Bottom Line’ philosophy, the Business continued to agility, digital interventions and calibrated pricing actions.
focus its efforts for resource conservation and adoption of Trade and marketing investments were sustained at
best-in-class technologies and processes. Sustainability competitive levels during the year towards supporting
initiatives of the Business continue to receive industry growth and market standing. Additionally, the Notebooks
recognition, with the Kidderpore unit receiving the portfolio was impacted by sharp deflation in paper
‘National Energy Leader Award’ at the CII National Award prices on account of cheap imports of paper, leading to
for Excellence in Energy Management, and the Munger heightened competitive intensity with opportunistic play by
Unit being awarded the ‘Winner’ Award under the Best local/regional brands.
Energy Efficient Organisation (Large Sector) at the
Your Company’s FMCG Businesses recorded
CII National Energy Efficiency Circle Competition.
Segment Revenue of ` 21981.57 crores (previous year
The 21 MW wind farm in Karnataka received the
` 20966.83 crores), with Segment EBITDA at
‘Best Performing Wind Farm Award’ from Indian Wind
` 2163.92 crores (previous year ` 2338.50 crores).
Power Association in its geographical zone. Additionally,
the Pune unit secured the coveted ‘Sarvashreshtha A consumer-centric approach, driven by purpose-led
Suraksha Puraskar’ awarded by National Safety Council brands, a future-ready portfolio including value-added
of India demonstrating its commitment to safety. adjacencies and agility in execution backed by smart
Over 100 new products anchored on the vectors of Health & Nutrition, Hygiene,
Protection & Care, Convenience & On-the-Go, Indulgence etc., were launched across
target markets during the year, leveraging the R&D platforms of your Company’s Life Sciences
and Technology Centre (LSTC) and agile product development teams across Businesses.
50 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 69]
omni-channel capability and excellence in supply chain, have grown at an impressive pace over the past
remains at the core of your Company’s strategy to rapidly several years.
scale-up the FMCG Businesses.
FMCG - Others
Across your Company’s FMCG Businesses, the power
of digital is being leveraged to drive superior consumer
Revenue (` Crores)
insights & innovation, deepen consumer engagement and
enhance brand loyalty. Strategic interventions continue to
be made towards delivering delightful brand experiences
seamlessly using an ‘Always On’ approach across
touchpoints through personalised journeys mapped to
individual needs, preferences and context.
Your Company continues to leverage deep consumer
insights and cutting-edge R&D capabilities to address
present and emergent consumer need spaces. Over
100 new products anchored on the vectors of Health &
Nutrition, Hygiene, Protection & Care, Convenience &
On-the-Go, Indulgence etc., were launched across target Your Company’s vibrant portfolio of over 25 world-class
markets during the year, leveraging the R&D platforms of Indian brands, largely built through an organic growth
your Company’s Life Sciences and Technology Centre strategy leveraging institutional synergies in a relatively
(LSTC) and agile product development teams across short period of time, represents an annual consumer
Businesses. spend of over ` 34000 crores and reach over 260 million
Cutting-edge digital technologies including Industry 4.0, households in India. These home-grown, purpose-led
Advanced Analytics, Big Data and industrial Internet of Indian brands, powered by agile innovation, support the
Things (IoT) continue to be deployed towards strengthening competitiveness of domestic value chains, especially in
your Company’s real time operations and execution the agri space, thereby ensuring creation and retention of
platform, enhancing productivity, driving efficiency and value within the country.
cost agility. These initiatives are anchored on the key
Your Company’s FMCG brands have achieved impressive
pillars of synchronised planning and forecasting, agile, market standing6 in a relatively short span of time in their
resilient & efficient supply chain, smart buying & value
respective categories viz. Aashirvaad is No. 1 in Branded Atta,
engineering, smart manufacturing and smart demand
Bingo! is No. 1 in the Bridges segment of Snack Foods,
capture & fulfilment. Strategic investments have been
Sunfeast is No. 1 in the Cream Biscuits segment,
stepped up to build platforms of insights by harmonising
Classmate is No. 1 in Notebooks, YiPPee! is No. 2 in
and integrating large and isolated datasets powered
Noodles and Mangaldeep is No. 2 in Incense Sticks.
by AI/ML technologies and ‘human-centred design’ &
Your Company remains focused on rapidly scaling up the
visualisation tools.
FMCG Businesses anchored on strong growth platforms
The FMCG Businesses comprising Branded Packaged
and a future-ready portfolio. It is pertinent to note that the
Foods, Personal Care Products, Education and Stationery
Products, Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) and Safety Matches
30YF 80YF 01YF 31YF 41YF 51YF 61YF 71YF 81YF 91YF 02YF 12YF 22YF 32YF 42YF 52YF
Report of the Board of Directors
21982
20967
19123
15994
14728
12505 12844
11329
10512
9731 9038
8122
7012
3642
2511
109
6 Source: Nielsen, Kantar Household Panel
Your Company’s vibrant portfolio of over 25 world-class Indian brands,
largely built through an organic growth strategy leveraging institutional synergies
in a relatively short period of time, represents an annual consumer spend of
over ` 34000 crores and reach over 260 million households in India.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 51