[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 239-241

[PAGE 239]
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements
in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets
that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial Controls With Reference to Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
Because of the inherent limitations of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements, including the
possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud
may occur and not be detected. Also, projections of any evaluation of the internal financial controls with reference to
financial statements to future periods are subject to the risk that the internal financial control with reference to
financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Opinion
In our opinion, the Company has, in all material respects, adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone
Ind AS financial statements and such internal financial controls with reference to standalone Ind AS financial statements
were operating effectively as at March 31, 2025, based on the internal control over financial reporting criteria established
by the Company considering the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note issued by the ICAI.
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E / E300003
per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
Place of Signature: Kolkata
Date: May 22, 2025 UDIN: 25089802BMNPUK4099
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 221

[PAGE 240]
Guide to Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures / Associates
Subsidiaries of ITC Limited I2A owns 100% of the shareholding of Indivate Inc.
incorporated as a New Jersey Corporation.
Surya Nepal Private Limited, Nepal
On 1st October 2024, I3L acquired 100% of the equity
Shareholding share capital of BTPL which is primarily engaged in the
59% held by ITC Limited. business of providing end-to-end cloud based solutions
and services. BTPL owns 100% of the shareholding of:
Nature of Business
Cloudlytics Technologies Private Limited
Manufacture and sale of cigarettes & branded packaged
Blazeclan Technologies PTE Ltd., Singapore
food products.
Blazeclan Technologies SDN. BHD., Malaysia
Subsidiary
Blazeclan Technologies Pty. Limited, Australia
Surya Nepal Ventures Private Limited, a wholly owned
Blazeclan Europe SRL., Belgium
subsidiary, is engaged in the business of manufacture and
Blazeclan Technologies Inc., Canada
sale of agarbattis.
Blazeclan Technologies LLC, USA
North East Nutrients Private Limited
Blazeclan Americas Inc., USA and
Shareholding Blazeclan Technologies Corporation, Philippines (BTC)#
76% held by ITC Limited. # Ownership include shareholding by two Directors of BTC,
who hold one share each in BTC.
Nature of Business
Blazeclan Technologies Pty. Limited, Australia, owns
Manufacture and sale of packaged food products from its
100% of the shareholding of Blazeclan Technologies
food processing facility based in Assam.
Limited, New Zealand.
ITC Infotech India Limited (I3L) All the above entities, other than Indivate Inc., are engaged
in the information technology services business. Indivate
Shareholding
Inc. is principally engaged in providing business consulting
100% held by ITC Limited.
services and opportunity based trading of FMCG products.
Nature of Business
Russell Credit Limited
Information technology services and solutions.
Shareholding
Subsidiaries
100% held by ITC Limited.
I3L owns 100% of the shareholding of :
Nature of Business
ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. (I2A)
Investment company. Its activities are primarily confined
ITC Infotech Limited, UK
to making long-term investments in strategic thrust areas
ITC Infotech Do Brasil LTDA., Brazil for ITC, namely FMCG, Paper, Paperboards & Packaging,
ITC Infotech France SAS Agri Business and Information Technology.
ITC Infotech GmbH, Germany Greenacre Holdings Limited
ITC Infotech Malaysia SDN. BHD.
Shareholding
ITC Infotech de México, S.A. de C.V. (I2MX)*
100% held by ITC Limited.
ITC Infotech Arabia Limited, Saudi Arabia
Nature of Business
ITC Infotech Italia s.r.l., Italy and
Engaged in property infrastructure maintenance, and
Blazeclan Technologies Private Limited (BTPL)
providing engineering, procurement & construction
* Ownership includes shareholding by I2A, which holds management and project management consultancy
one share in I2MX. services.
222 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 241]
Gold Flake Corporation Limited (GFCL) Technico Agri Sciences Limited
Shareholding Shareholding
100% held by ITC Limited.
100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business
Nature of Business
General trading.
An agri-biotechnology company primarily engaged in rapid
Joint Venture multiplication and commercialisation of seed potatoes
®
ITC Filtrona Limited, India, is a 50% joint venture of GFCL with TECHNITUBER technology & sourcing / supply of
with Filtrona Products International Limited, UK. commercial potatoes.
Nature of Business
ITC IndiVision Limited
Manufacture and sale of cigarette filter rods.
Shareholding
ITC Integrated Business Services Limited (IIBSL)
100% held by ITC Limited.
Shareholding
Nature of Business
100% held by ITC Limited.
Manufacture and sale of nicotine and nicotine derivative
Nature of Business
products from its facility in Karnataka.
Providing support to the Business Shared Services
operations of ITC Limited and its related entities.
Wimco Limited
Subsidiary
Shareholding
IIBSL owns 100% shareholding in MRR Trading &
100% held by ITC Limited.
Investment Company Limited, which provides estate
maintenance services. Nature of Business
Fabrication & assembly of machinery for tube filling,
Technico Pty Limited, Australia (Technico)
cartoning, wrapping, conveyor solutions and engineering
Shareholding
services.
100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business Pavan Poplar Limited & Prag Agro Farm Limited
An agri-biotechnology company primarily engaged in Shareholding
®
commercialisation of seed potatoes with TECHNITUBER
100% held by ITC Limited.
technology.
Nature of Business
Subsidiaries
Agro-forestry and other related activities.
Technico has two wholly owned subsidiaries, namely
Technico Technologies Inc., Canada and Technico Asia
ITC Fibre Innovations Limited
Holdings Pty Limited, Australia.
Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited has a wholly owned Shareholding
subsidiary, Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Company
100% held by ITC Limited
Limited, China.
Nature of Business
These companies support Technico in the production
and commercialisation of seed potatoes in different Manufacture and sale of moulded fibre products from its
geographies. facility in Madhya Pradesh.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 223