[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 80-82

[PAGE 80]
Report of the Board of Directors
The Classmate and Paperkraft range of notebooks a powerful chord with consumers across the country.
leverage your Company’s world-class fibre line at The campaign was completed by targeted marketing
Bhadrachalam - India’s first ozone treated elemental interventions across channels, further deepening
chlorine free facility - and embody the environmental Mangaldeep’s spiritual connect.
capital built by your Company in its paper business.
Responding to evolving consumer preferences, the
The Business also continues to scale-up the
Business expanded its product portfolio through several
®
Paperkraft range (FSC -C181115) of notebooks using
impactful launches. Notably, the new sub-brand ‘Fusion’
® ®
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC ) certified paper
was introduced with contemporary fragrances such as
®
(FSC -C064218), made at your Company’s paper mill
Sambrani & Oud, Sandal & Vetiver and Lavender & Sage
at Bhadrachalam.
each blending traditional aroma with a modern twist.
With over 300 million students, India has one of the largest The ‘Scent’ sub-brand was also extended with new
education systems in the world. The Indian Education offerings in premium dry dhoop sticks and cones, delivering
and Stationery Products industry holds immense potential ‘perfume like’ experiences true to its positioning.
driven by growing literacy, increasing enrolment ratios,
Catering to the emerging wellness segment, the Business
the Government’s continued thrust on the education
launched ‘Pranah’, a premium range inspired by
sector and a favourable demographic profile of the
earth-sourced aromatherapy. This included scented
country’s population. Your Company’s Education and
candles, incense sticks, and cones, harmonising natural
Stationery Products Business, with its strong brands,
inspiration with scientific wellness benefits.
robust product portfolio, collaborative linkages with
To further strengthen consumer engagement, the brand
small & medium enterprises and superior distribution
undertook large-scale on-ground activations during
network, is well poised to sustain its leadership position
the Maha Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj. These included
in the industry.
immersive spiritual experiences, participation in sacred
Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) and Safety Matches rituals, and bhajan evenings. The Jalbatti initiative — a
symbolic and sustainable ceremonial offering — added
The Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) category witnessed
a powerful dimension to consumer connection and
robust growth during the year with your Company’s
received extensive media coverage. On the digital front,
flagship brand ‘Mangaldeep’ further strengthening its
augmented reality-based experiences brought the sanctity
market standing across formats including Agarbattis,
of Kumbh into homes, further enhancing brand resonance.
Dhoop and Sambrani. Anchored in deep consumer
insights and spiritual relevance, Mangaldeep offers a The Mangaldeep mobile app was also relaunched with a
unique product experience that combines traditional modernised, intuitive user interface. Redesigned with
devotional appeal with modern sensibilities. The Business Watch, Read & Listen content streams, gamified elements
successfully navigated an inflationary cost environment and improved navigation, the app reinforces Mangaldeep’s
through judicious mix enhancement and strategic ambition of being a holistic spiritual companion.
cost optimisation, thereby sustaining profitability and
In a pioneering step towards inclusive innovation,
volume growth.
Mangaldeep continues to collaborate with over
The Brands visibility and engagement were enhanced 150 visually impaired fragrance evaluators under the
through a high impact thematic campaign – Sixth Sense initiative. This unique programme empowers
“Dil Se Karo Baat, Bhagwan Ke Sath” – which struck differently-abled individuals to co-create fragrances,
The Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) category witnessed robust growth
during the year with your Company’s flagship brand ‘Mangaldeep’ further strengthening
its market standing across formats including Agarbattis, Dhoop and Sambrani.
Catering to the emerging wellness segment, the Business launched ‘Pranah’,
a premium range inspired by earth-sourced aromatherapy.
62 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 81]
Report of the Board of Directors
helping the brand deliver long-lasting and sensorially rich nature of these challenges, TM&D continues to sharpen
offerings while fostering inclusive growth. channel-specific strategies to efficiently service consumer
demand across the country. Valuable insights of consumer
Over the years, the Business has implemented several
behaviour and channel/region specific trends gained over
measures to enhance the competitiveness of the
the years continue to be leveraged to deliver superior
agarbatti value chain in India. This includes scaling up
performance in terms of product availability, visibility and
bamboo procurement through local sources, working
freshness.
closely with manufacturers and state nodal agencies to
promote bamboo plantation and indigenous bamboo The rapid growth of Modern Trade, e-Commerce and
stick manufacturing. Mangaldeep remains at the Quick-Commerce channels, coupled with the emergence
forefront of driving bamboo stick manufacturing, enabling of several new players, has necessitated the deployment
import substitution while advancing national priorities of of tailored market/outlet specific strategies to seize the
employment generation, rural livelihood enhancement, emerging opportunities. Omni-channel presence in urban
and inclusive economic growth. markets enabled accelerated growth while shopper
marketing insights and agile supply chain capabilities
In the Safety Matches industry, the Business strengthened
were leveraged to enhance operational and execution
its market leadership position by leveraging the brand
efficiencies.
‘Homelites’ – built on differentiated positioning of stronger,
longer and karborised sticks. The Business continues to The surge in internet usage, particularly through
focus on scaling up the share of value-added products smartphones, amongst convenience-seeking consumers,
in its portfolio and enhancing supply chain efficiency by widespread adoption of digital payments, wide assortment
sourcing products manufactured closer to markets. of products and faster deliveries continue to drive the
rising salience of e-Commerce and Quick Commerce
Leveraging its world-class brands and innovative &
channels. Your Company’s collaborations with leading
superior product offerings, your Company remains
e-Commerce and Quick Commerce platforms on all
confident of scaling up its Agarbattis & Safety Matches
aspects of operations viz. category development, supply
portfolio, and strengthen its position in the segment.
chain, consumer offerings and customer acquisition
TRADE MARKETING & DISTRIBUTION has enabled it to significantly scale-up sales in these
channels. This was augmented by development of
Your Company’s Trade Marketing & Distribution (TM&D)
exclusive pack assortments, channel-specific business
vertical continues to strengthen its multi-channel
plans and ‘Digital First’ brands. Joint Business Plans
go-to-market capabilities towards ensuring effective market
executed in coordination with these platforms coupled
servicing and product availability. Proactive interventions
with agile supply chain initiatives have further fortified your
continue to be made towards addressing emerging
Company’s market standing in e-Commerce and Quick
trends such as the rapid growth of new gen channels
Commerce channels. Growth in the premium portfolio
(Modern Trade, e-Commerce, Quick-Commerce) and
was accelerated through increased visibility, focus on
increasing demand for premium products.
target cohorts and jointly curated campaigning, including
The dynamic interplay of varied and evolving consumer collaborating on topical events across accounts. Digitally
preferences, multiplicity of channels including rapid enabled sales have grown rapidly in recent years and,
acceleration in new gen channels, diverse demographic together with Modern Trade, now account for 31% of your
profiles & socio-economic factors, and a vast geographical Company’s FMCG 7 portfolio (Vs. 17% in FY 2019-20).
landscape pose a high degree of complexity for distribution
of FMCG products in India. Recognising the multifaceted 7 Excluding Education and Stationery Products
Your Company’s Trade Marketing & Distribution (TM&D) vertical continues to strengthen
its multi-channel go-to-market capabilities towards ensuring effective market servicing
and product availability. Your Company’s collaborations with leading e-Commerce and
Quick Commerce platforms on all aspects of operations viz. category development,
supply chain, consumer offerings and customer acquisition has enabled
it to significantly scale-up sales in these channels.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 63

[PAGE 82]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company’s multi-channel distribution network, which development activities and further enhancements to
facilitates availability of its products in nearly seven million the digital ecosystem for the stockist channel. These
retail outlets of which more than one-third are serviced initiatives have substantially enhanced the availability of
directly, was further strengthened during the year with the your Company’s range of products in rural markets.
addition of new markets and outlets to its direct servicing
The Food Service and Institutional channels continued to
base. Market coverage was stepped up by more than 2x of
witness robust growth during the year leveraging existing
pre-pandemic levels. TM&D’s wide and deep distribution
partnerships and your Company’s wide product range.
network and cutting-edge digital capabilities render the
Strategic partnerships unlocked new routes-to-market,
FMCG Businesses with significant competitive strength.
catering to specialised segments including ‘on-the-go’
In the General Trade channel, your Company continued consumption, direct marketing and QSRs. Customised
to demonstrate resilient performance through focused product portfolios continue to be deployed for identified
market approach and differentiated product assortment. high potential segments of railways, airports and airlines
During the year, urban markets witnessed heightened to strengthen presence in this channel.
competitive intensity from regional/local players and
TM&D remains at the forefront of leveraging cutting-edge
accelerated channel shift with the increasing salience
digital technologies and building a digital ecosystem to
of Modern Trade, e-Commerce and Quick Commerce.
draw actionable insights for sharp-focused interventions,
Automation, data-led insighting and machine-learning
augment sales force capability, drive productivity, improve
enabled solutions continue to be increasingly leveraged
market servicing and deepen connect with retailers.
to drive last mile productivity and performance across
Technology enablement in the form of customised mobility
markets. Further, emerging technologies like Generative
and routing solutions, machine learning algorithms,
AI are being increasingly leveraged to automate operations data science models, data analytics comprising insightful
and enhance efficiency. Customised servicing based on visualisation tools and predictive analytics are being
outlet potential and retail engagement programmes have increasingly leveraged to enable speedy and accurate
been deployed to stimulate demand for your Company’s data capture, enable real-time informed decision making
products with enhanced focus on premium grocery and aid in optimisation of trade & marketing inputs to
outlets. Specific interventions were undertaken to drive enhance visibility and sales. The machine learning
premiumisation in General Trade outlets with store level models have been augmented to sharpen outlet level SKU
missions led by sharper data analytics. recommendations. Use cases for self-service analytics
tools have increased to analyse data and present insights
In rural markets, your Company continued to deploy
which are digitally integrated into business decisions,
market-specific interventions to enhance direct coverage
resulting in intelligent digitalisation of business processes.
on the basis of socio-economic indicators and market
potential. This has been supported through a hub and The digitally powered eB2B platform of your Company,
spoke distribution model with the continued expansion of UNNATI, has been rapidly scaled up during the year,
rural stockists network to 1.4x over the last three years. covering nearly eight lakh outlets. UNNATI facilitates
Leveraging the synergies arising out of the deep rural sharp and direct engagement with retailers, superior
connect of your Company’s Agri Business, extensive analytics, personalised recommendations of hyperlocal
consumer activations were undertaken in high potential baskets based on consumer purchase insights, and
rural areas during the year aided by concerted market deeper brand engagement.
Your Company’s multi-channel distribution network, which facilitates availability of its
products in nearly seven million retail outlets of which more than one-third are serviced directly,
was further strengthened during the year. Market coverage was stepped up by
more than 2x of pre-pandemic levels. TM&D’s wide and deep distribution network and
cutting-edge digital capabilities render the FMCG Businesses with
significant competitive strength.
64 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025