[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 84-86

[PAGE 84]
Report of the Board of Directors
The Business has also undertaken several initiatives to proximity to key raw material sources, mitigate operational
address the challenges of wood availability and surge in risks through multi-site operations and enhance resilience
costs, including inter alia, opportunity based wood imports, across industry cycles through portfolio diversification.
evaluation of leased plantation models, and acceleration The Business expects to drive structural improvement
in plantations in collaboration with industry stakeholders. in profitability of CPP through several value unlock
Your Company is pioneering a first ever initiative in interventions such as capacity debottlenecking, product
quality upgrade, efficiency improvement leveraging
Indian Wood Based Industry using satellite imaging for
TPM/Digital initiatives, supply chain optimisation, costs
plantation monitoring and wood assessment to monitor
and procurement efficiencies. The acquisition is also
pulpwood plantations and assess future harvestable
expected to strengthen the market standing of your
wood quantity available in various catchments.
Company’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business
The Business sustained its leadership position in the and engender new opportunities in the domestic and
Value-Added Paperboard (VAP) segment through focused international markets. The acquisition aligns with your
innovations and development of customised solutions Company’s strategy of driving the next horizon of growth
for end-use industries. The Business also consolidated in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business by
its leadership position in the eco-labelled products and expanding capacity at a new location considering that
premium recycled paperboards segments. the existing facilities are already saturated. The strong
linkages to afforestation and livelihood creation pursued
During the year, the Specialty Papers segment witnessed
by both the entities will also contribute meaningfully to
robust growth driven by capacity augmentation in
national priorities.
Décor paper. Market standing in the segment continues
The paperboards and packaging industry is poised
to be driven by product mix enrichment and diversification
for transformative change in the medium term.
of the customer base. The domestic industry remained
Customers are increasingly seeking solutions that are
under pressure due to cheap supplies from China.
bio-degradable, substitute single use plastic and meet
The levy of Anti-dumping duty on Décor paper has
stakeholder & regulatory expectations across industries
partially provided a level playing field for domestic industry,
including food serving & delivery, pharmaceutical, beauty
which is critical towards fostering domestic value chains
and electronics.
and enabling import substitution.
The Business has adopted a multi-tiered strategy to
During the year, your Company signed a Business Transfer
build solutions that will replace single use plastics and
Agreement to acquire the Pulp and Paper Undertaking
meet emergent consumer needs. Within the sustainable
(‘CPP’) of Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited (‘ABREL’) at
products portfolio – ‘Platform 1’ comprises a range of
Lalkuan (Nainital, Uttarakhand). Commissioned in 1984,
recyclable, compostable and barrier coated boards and
CPP is a well-established player in the Indian Paper
includes the ‘Filo’ series - ‘FiloBev’ (for beverage cups),
industry with an installed capacity of 4.8 Lakh tonnes
‘FiloServe’ (for QSR, bakeries, food retail) & ‘FiloPack’
per annum. CPP is a one-of-a-kind asset with a strong
(packaging for sweets and deep freeze applications).
strategic fit with your Company’s Paperboards & Specialty ‘FiloBev Mini’ (for economic cup variant for short servings)
Papers Business. The acquisition (which is expected to was developed during the year and has quickly gained
be completed in about six months) will immediately add market share in focus markets. The Filo series has
significant scale and economies to existing operations been certified compostable by the Central Institute of
with potential for further capacity expansion, provide Petrochemicals Engineering & Technology (CIPET) and the
locational advantage for efficient customer servicing and manufacturing unit at Bollaram has been registered as a
Your Company signed a Business Transfer Agreement to acquire
the Pulp and Paper Undertaking (‘CPP’) of Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited (‘ABREL’).
CPP is a one-of-a-kind asset with a strong strategic fit with your Company’s
Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business.
66 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 85]
Report of the Board of Directors
compostable products manufacturer. The state-of-the-art greater consistency in farmer earnings. In this context,
Coater machine set up during the year has enabled the your Company’s Life Sciences & Technology Centre is
business to quickly penetrate this fast-evolving space engaged in developing higher yielding second generation
which holds immense growth potential, supported by clones with enhanced pest and disease resistant attributes.
the R&D capabilities of your Company’s Life Sciences & The Business continues to focus on scaling up wood
Technology Centre, and through external collaborations sourcing from core areas and has increased plantations
with global specialists. The range of products in this in core area during the year. In addition, initiatives such
segment is witnessing strong growth momentum both as bund plantations and scaling up plantations in new
in domestic and international markets. ‘Platform 2’ catchment areas in Odisha and Chhattisgarh have enabled
comprises a range of first-to-market Fusion boards that procurement of nearly 10% of total wood requirement of
are fully recyclable and replace plastic ‘foam’ board. the Business from such new areas, with further potential
End-use applications include indoor display solutions for increasing cost-effective access to fibre in the future.
involving replacement of plastic signboards and shelves. Business has achieved highest ever plantation area of
~65000 ha (growth of appx. 30%) during the year.
‘Platform 3’ offers futuristic packaging solutions
Your Company has the distinction of being the first in India
comprising premium Moulded Fibre Products (MFP) made
to have obtained the Forest Stewardship Council-Forest
from renewable natural fibres such as wood, bamboo,
® ®
Management (FSC -FM) certification (FSC -C102390),
bagasse, waste paper etc. Your Company’s wholly-owned
which confirms compliance with the highest international
subsidiary, ITC Fibre Innovations Limited (IFIL), forayed
benchmarks of plantation management across the
into the fast-growing MFP space with the commissioning
dimensions of environmental responsibility, social benefit,
of a state-of-the-art MFP manufacturing facility in
and economic viability. Till date, your Company has received
Badiyakhedi, Madhya Pradesh in March 2024. During
®
FSC -FM certification for over 1.49 lakh acres of
the year, IFIL has substantially stabilised operations
plantations involving over 25000 farmers. During the year,
and scaled up commercial shipments. Going forward,
®
nearly 4.85 lakh tonnes of FSC -certified wood was
IFIL will leverage the expertise of the Business in
procured from these certified plantations. Your Company
fibre value chain, manufacturing excellence and strong
sustained its position as the leading supplier of
sustainability credentials to rapidly scale-up business
® ®
FSC -certified paper and paperboards (FSC -C064218)
with continued focus on developing innovative plastic
in India.
substitution solutions.
Your Company’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers
Your Company’s Packaging Board Centre of Excellence
Business is a pioneer in the adoption of Digital
was institutionalised during the year to further drive
technologies. In recent years, the Business has embarked
customer engagement on technical aspects, improve
upon a comprehensive Digital Transformation Programme
product performance and focus on new-gen product
across the vectors of manufacturing, supply chain and
development.
support services to achieve operational excellence,
The Business continues to procure wood, a key raw enable decarbonisation of operations, drive improvement
material, from sustainable sources. Research on clonal in profitability and improve safety across the value chain.
development has resulted in introduction of high-yielding The multi-dimensional digital interventions encompass
and disease-resistant clones that are adaptable to a Industrial IoT for Smart Operations, Integrated Data
wide variety of agro-climatic conditions. This has not only Platform, AI/ML algorithms for manufacturing process
aided in increasing farmer incomes but has also enabled optimisation, AI/ML based image analytics and IoT based
Your Company’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business is a pioneer in the adoption of
Digital technologies. The multi-dimensional digital interventions encompass
Industrial IoT for Smart Operations, Integrated Data Platform, AI/ML algorithms for
manufacturing process optimisation, AI/ML based image analytics and
IoT based crop monitoring & advisory, and computer vision-based
solutions to improve workforce safety.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 67

[PAGE 86]
Report of the Board of Directors
crop monitoring & advisory, and computer vision-based In line with the objective of enhancing the share of
solutions to improve workforce safety. The Business renewable energy in its operations, the Business has
continues to collaborate with partners from the start-up implemented several initiatives including investments in a
green boiler, high efficiency circulating fluidised bed boiler,
ecosystem, as well as established solution providers,
solar & wind energy and increased usage of bio-fuel.
in building scalable solutions that are custom fit to business
The recently commissioned state-of-the-art and
requirements. The Business’ Digital App Suite has more
future-ready High Pressure Recovery Boiler at the
than forty applications across themes of automated data
Bhadrachalam mill is progressively enhancing energy
reporting, image and video analytics, intelligent root
efficiency and reducing the carbon footprint of the unit’s
cause analysis, smart simulation, numerical optimisation,
operations by significantly lowering coal consumption
advanced AI models, low-code/no-code applications,
by appx. 25%. These investments are a testament
process digital twins, etc. The Business was the Global
to your Company’s commitment towards embedding
winner at the BRICS Industrial Innovation Contest under sustainability in its operations and supporting the
the theme of ‘Intelligent Manufacturing using AI/ML’ and ‘Make in India’ initiative. With these initiatives, renewable
the Asia-Pacific Regional winner at the Gartner’s Eye for sources presently account for more than 50% of
Innovation Awards under the categories of ‘Advanced total energy consumed at the four manufacturing units
Manufacturing’, and ‘Energy, Power and Utilities’. of the Business.
The Business continues to strengthen its safety
The Business also embarked upon a Supply Chain
management processes, adopt globally recognised
Transformation Project ‘OJAS’, establishing a dedicated
best practices and ensure that facilities are designed,
supply chain vertical to enhance customer service and realise
constructed, operated and maintained in an inherently safe
value from supply chain optimisation. This initiative has
manner. Business continues to deploy various measures
led to significant improvements in On-Time-In-Full (OTIF),
including the use of Data Analytics Tools to identify risk
reductions in Order to Delivery Time (ODLT), and other
prone areas for proactive mitigation of incidents, video
customer service delivery metrics.
analytics, digitally enabled systems such as Mobile based
The Business has adopted the principles of app, ‘Gensuite’, etc.
Total Productive Maintenance (TPM), Lean and The manufacturing facilities at Bhadrachalam, Kovai,
Six Sigma for over a decade and continues to reap Tribeni and Bollaram continue to receive industry
substantial benefits through several Business Excellence recognition for their green credentials and safety
initiatives. standards in line with the focus on sustainable business
practices. The Bhadrachalam unit is the first pulp & paper
All manufacturing units of the Business continue to
plant and the second in the country overall, to be rated
recycle nearly 100% of the solid waste generated during
‘GreenCo Platinum+’ by CII, as part of the Green Company
operations by converting the same into lime, fly ash
rating system. The Kovai unit has also been rated
bricks, cement, grey boards, egg trays etc. In addition,
GreenCo Platinum+ by CII. The Kovai unit is the
the Business recycled around 1.1 lakh tonnes of waste first site in India and the first paper mill in the world to
paper during the year, thereby sustaining positive solid achieve the highest platinum rating under the ‘Alliance
waste recycling footprint of the Business. for Water Stewardship Standards’. Bhadrachalam unit
The recently commissioned state-of-the-art and future-ready High Pressure Recovery Boiler
at the Bhadrachalam mill is progressively enhancing energy efficiency and reducing the
carbon footprint of the unit’s operations by significantly lowering coal consumption by appx. 25%.
These investments are a testament to your Company’s commitment towards embedding
sustainability in its operations and supporting the ‘Make in India’ initiative.
68 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025