[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 107-109

[PAGE 107]
Report of the Board of Directors
Aligned with your Company’s ‘Digital First’ strategy, HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
the Internal Audit function has evolved into an agile,
Your Company’s thought, strategy and action are inspired
multi-skilled and technology-enabled function. Processes
by a larger purpose of being an exemplary Indian enterprise
within Internal Audit function are continuously enhanced
that not only delivers superior competitive performance,
for greater effectiveness and productivity by utilising
but also embeds sustainability and inclusiveness at the
best-in-class tools for audit analytics, intelligent
core of its Businesses. This approach enables your
automation, adoption of new open-source tools and
Company to delight consumers and customers with a
AI-enabled BOTs. Utilisation of the recently implemented
vibrant portfolio of industry leading products and services
Digital Audit Management System, a tool for end-to-end while generating enduring value for the Indian economy
digitisation of audit life cycle, was scaled up during the and the larger community of stakeholders. The talent
year; key enhancements such as ‘Agile Audit’ module were management strategy of your Company is designed to
introduced to improve efficiency and monitoring across attract, retain and develop human capital that enables
the assurance process lifecycle. An integrated advanced your Company to sustain its position as one of India’s
data analytics tool has been adopted to enhance auditors’ most valuable corporations, whilst continuing with its
capabilities with low-code/no-code scripting, automated mission of building a responsible ‘Future-Tech’ enterprise.
data extraction, and analysis of both structured and Your Company’s employees relentlessly strive to deliver
unstructured data. In addition, several off-the-shelf tools world-class performance, collaborating with each other
were introduced for IT security checks, code reviews and and discharging their role as ‘trustees’ of all stakeholders.
vulnerability assessments of your Company’s websites, Your Company is committed to perpetuating vitality –
apps, and social media handles. its growth as a value generating engine and also as an
exemplary institution – so that it continues to succeed in
Qualified engineers within the Internal Audit function
its relentless pursuit of creating enduring value.
review the design, planning and execution of all ongoing
projects that involve significant expenditure. This Your Company’s Human Resources development
ensures that project management controls are robust approach spans four key organisational dimensions of
and yield ‘value for money’. The Internal Audit function Architecture, Alignment, Agility and Ability which are
supported through strategies crafted in areas such as talent
also leverages state-of-the-art industry-specific tools and
acquisition, engagement, diversity & inclusion, capability
technology to conduct comprehensive project audits.
building, employee relations, performance & rewards and
Your Company’s Internal Audit processes are certified
employee well-being. Through its various talent initiatives
as complying with ISO 9001:2015 Quality Standards.
and processes, your Company strives to deliver the value
Further, systems and processes are in accordance with
proposition of ‘Building Winning Businesses, Building
the Standards on Internal Audit (SIA) issued by The
Business Leaders and Creating Value for India’. The talent
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
development practices help create, foster and strengthen
The Audit Committee of your Board met twelve times the capability of human capital to deliver critical outcomes
during the year. The Terms of Reference of the on the vectors of strategic impact, operational efficiency
and capital productivity while reimagining consumer
Audit Committee, inter alia, include reviewing the
experience, driving business model transformation and
effectiveness of the internal control environment,
enhancing employee experience.
evaluating your Company’s internal financial controls &
risk management systems, and monitoring the Your Company’s ‘Strategy of Organisation’ is designed
implementation of action plans arising from significant to promote agility through a culture and practice of
Internal Audit findings. Material observations, as defined distributed leadership enabled by a three-tier governance
in the Terms of Reference, are reviewed at the highest structure. This is manifested in market and consumer
level by the Audit Compliance and Review Committee facing Businesses, which are driven by empowered,
(ACRC) and the Audit Committee. cluster-based teams and supported by shared assets
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 89

[PAGE 108]
Report of the Board of Directors
and capabilities, enabling strategic relevance, speed, Your Company’s talent development approach is
responsiveness, and operational excellence. This founded on the belief that learning initiatives must remain
approach allows Businesses, through their Management synergistic and aligned to business outcomes. Your
Committees, to focus, develop and execute Business Company provides managers with contemporary and
Plans relevant to their product-market spaces while relevant learning and development support through a
leveraging the institutional strengths of your Company combination of self-paced e-learning modules, classroom
and harvesting internal synergies. programmes and application projects with emphasis
on experiential learning, on-the-job assignments and
The year under review witnessed some softening of the
exposure to nationally and globally renowned faculty.
employment market, reflected in lower attrition and a more
Deep functional expertise is fostered at early stages of
measured approach to remuneration decisions in several
industry sectors. While flexible work arrangements an employee’s career through immersion in complex
are now prevalent across industry, there has been a problem-solving assignments requiring the application
moderation in application, reflecting a gradual shift of domain expertise. These interventions have
towards an equilibrium. Several global organisations, helped your Company build and sustain a culture of
with presence in India, have also chosen to review application-focused continuous learning, innovation and
their Diversity agenda. The adoption and integration of collaboration. Managers are assessed on your Company’s
digitisation and automation tools to enhance productivity behavioural competency framework and provided with
continues. Companies remain committed to prioritising learning and development support to address areas
employee well-being & mental health support. identified for improvement. Key talent is provided critical
experiences in high-impact roles and mentored by senior
Your Company’s unique employer equity as an exemplary
managers, promoting the development of a steady pool of
Indian enterprise creating world-class brands, building
high-quality talent.
business leaders and generating economic, social and
environmental capital for the Indian economy, continues Your Company has identified three capability vectors
to play a pivotal role in the attraction and retention of for making Businesses future-ready – Leadership
high-quality talent. The management trainee programme, Development, Business Critical Functional Competencies,
augmented with recruitment of experienced talent from and Organisation Identity & Pride. As a part of leadership
the market, is an integral part of building a deep pipeline. development initiatives, the Reflections 360 programme
Your Company continues to draw the finest management, provides leaders with feedback from team members,
technical and commercial talent from premier institutions peers and managers, enabling self-driven personal
in the country and is ranked amongst the leading
development. This is supplemented by immersive
companies in these institutions. Intensive engagement
workshops and personalised one-on-one coaching being
with the country’s premier academic institutions over the
made available for senior managers.
years to communicate your Company’s talent proposition
This approach ensures relevance and impact, thereby
through case-study competitions, knowledge-sharing
enhancing the capability index of your Company’s human
programmes by senior managers, on-ground exposure
capital. Globally benchmarked curriculum are tailored
and factory visits for students and the annual internship
to your Company’s context, especially in the domains
programmes have all contributed to creating a compelling
proposition for the best candidates to aspire for a of Digital Fluency, Data Science, Industrial Analytics,
career with your Company. Your Company continues to Brand Marketing and Manufacturing strategy. All these
enthuse talent with high-impact roles, competitive and interventions are delivered through subject matter experts,
performance driven remuneration with an emphasis on domestic and international, and supplemented with
long-term incentives, a wealth of learning opportunities, business-critical application projects. Periodic induction
a commitment to enhancing diversity, equity & inclusion, programmes, anchored by senior leaders, enable new
an employee-centric climate, well-being focused entrants to appreciate your Company’s Vision, Mission,
infrastructure and support that promotes fellowship and Culture, Values and Strategies while fostering pride in
commitment amongst employees. affiliation with your Company.
90 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 109]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company continues to strengthen its performance perspectives, fosters creative solutions and is integral
management system and its culture of accountability to serving customers better while creating value for
through widespread adoption of the system of all stakeholders. Your Company’s policy on Diversity,
Management-by-Objectives. Performance planning Equity and Inclusion articulates and institutionalises
through clearly defined goals, outcome-based assessment, this conviction through concerted actions spanning
and alignment of rewards for achievement of results three vectors, i.e., Representation, Inclusion & Enablement
have all contributed to a robust culture of ownership and and Commitment & Assurance. Your Company is
accountability. ‘Career Conversations’ and succession committed to enhancing gender diversity and participation
planning processes have contributed to helping employees of the differently abled in the workforce.
realise their potential, craft their careers while recognising
Measures to enhance diversity include ensuring
their strengths and areas of development and ensuring a
sufficient representation of women in selection pools
sound workforce planning system.
and deployment of the differently abled across suitable
In the spirit of continuous improvement, your Company opportunities in the value chain. Through progressive
maintains a practice of periodically assessing employee policies offering flexible work arrangements, extended
engagement through an entity-wide survey. The recent child-care leave, travel support for infants and care-givers,
survey results of 2024 continue to indicate an improving secure transport, paternity leave, same gender partner
trend, on a strong base, with scores increasing in the medical benefits, infrastructure support coupled with
range of 10 to 16 percentage points on key dimensions. various sensitisation programmes, Employee Resource
96% of employees reported a deep sense of pride and Groups, development interventions tailored for women
association with your Company, 94% reported a belief talent, and the commitment and sponsorship of leaders;
in your Company’s overarching goals & leadership and your Company provides an enabling environment to
94% are optimistic of the future. These engagement further its Diversity, Equity and Inclusion goals. To ensure
levels reflect in your Company’s superior standing
a safe and progressive work environment, Internal
on employee turnover. During the year, a range of
Committees have been institutionalised as per provisions
engagement programmes were sustained including
of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
initiatives such as leadership outreach through extensive
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
communication, recognition programmes acknowledging
The focused efforts across these dimensions have
exceptional contributions of employees and teams, career
resulted in a 72% increase in women managers in your
conversations and investments in employee wellbeing.
Company since FY 2021-22.
The year witnessed the Cigarettes Business receiving the
Your Company continued its practice of active leadership
Platinum Award for ‘Best Practices in Digitisation in HR’
outreach to employees. Periodic communication with
among Large Manufacturing Sector Companies at the
the ITC community through ‘StudioOne Townhalls’ led
8th CII National HR Competition 2024. The Personal
by the Chairman, provided employees avenues to hear
Care Business and Foods Business were conferred
from and engage with leaders about your Company’s
FICCI’s Women Empowerment Award 2024, under the
vision, strategy and milestones. This was supplemented
category - ‘Impactful Care Ecosystem for Employees’.
by a more personalised engagement through the
The Life Sciences and Technology Centre (LSTC) won
‘StudioOne Xchange’ initiative. The Chairman and other
the CII Award on ‘Excellence for Women in STEM 2024’.
members of the Corporate Management Committee
LSTC was the only organisation in the Life Sciences
interacted with managers across Businesses in small
Sector to be recognised in top 25 companies by CII in
groups, sharing your Company’s vision and strategies
this category.
while also inviting suggestions and feedback. Your
Your Company’s efforts to enhance Diversity, Equity and Company believes that alignment of all employees to
Inclusion are founded on the conviction that a diverse a shared vision and purpose is vital for winning in the
workforce contributes to rich discourse, promotes holistic marketplace. It also recognises the mutuality of interests
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 91