[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 111-113

[PAGE 111]
Report of the Board of Directors
zero economy, work towards ensuring water security Plastic Waste and Circular Economy
for all and create an effective circular economy for
– 100% of your Company’s Packaging to be Reusable,
post-consumer packaging waste. It also entails protecting
Recyclable or Compostable/Biodegradable by 2028.
and restoring biodiversity and ecosystem services through
adoption of nature-based solutions. Your Company – Sustain plastic neutrality (attained in FY 2021-22) by
enabling sustainable management of waste in excess
believes that agility in thought and action, meaningful
of the amount of packaging utilised.
public-private-people partnerships and Responsible
Competitiveness will act as core enablers of this new Sustainable Agriculture
agenda. Your Company has the potential to make a
– Promote climate smart agriculture approach in core
large-scale impact not only from an economic standpoint,
Agri Business catchments across four million acres
but also from the perspective of supporting livelihoods
by 2030.
and social enablement because of its presence across
Biodiversity Conservation
several critical sectors of the economy. With its bold
Sustainability 2.0 agenda, your Company is setting the – Revive & sustain ecosystem services and products
bar higher and remains committed to making meaningful provided by nature, through adoption of nature-based
contribution to the Nation’s future while retaining its status solutions and biodiversity conservation covering over
as a sustainability exemplar. The 2030 Sustainability 2.0 one million acres by 2030.
ambitions include:
Sustainable Livelihoods
Climate Change
– Supporting sustainable livelihoods for 10 million
– Enhancing the share of renewable energy usage to people by 2030.
50% of total energy consumption by 2030.
Your Company’s Businesses are actively working towards
– Meeting 100% of purchased grid electricity achieving your Company’s Sustainability 2.0 vision.
requirements from renewable sources by 2030. During FY 2024-25, your Company enhanced the share
of its renewable energy to nearly 52%. Commendable
– Reducing specific energy consumption by 30% and
progress has been made in line with 2030 targets relating
specific Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions by 50%
to specific energy, specific GHG emissions and specific
by 2030 as compared to the FY 2018-19 baseline.
water consumption across Businesses as well. In line
– Sustain and enhance carbon sequestration by with its commitment, your Company continued to remain
expanding forestry projects through your Company’s plastic neutral during FY 2024-25 by sustainably managing
Social and Farm Forestry programme and other such more plastic packaging waste than the amount of plastic
initiatives covering over 1.5 million acres by 2030. packaging utilised. During the year, your Company’s
large-scale programmes on Sustainable Agriculture were
Water Stewardship
augmented to cover 3.17 million acres. Through its deep
– Achieving 40% reduction in specific water consumption engagement in agriculture, manufacturing and services,
by 2030 as compared to the FY 2018-19 baseline. as well as its extensive distribution infrastructure and
large-scale programmes under ITC Mission Sunehra
– Creation of rainwater harvesting potential equivalent
Kal, your Company supports nearly nine million
to over five times the net water consumption by 2030.
sustainable livelihoods across its operations and
– Certification of all sites in high water stressed areas value chains. A detailed performance dashboard against
as per the international water stewardship standard 2030 commitments is included in your Company’s
by Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) by 2035 annual Sustainability Report, 2025 and will be available
and eight sites by 2024. in due course.
– Improve crop water-use efficiency in agri-value chains In addition to the 2030 targets, your Company is enhancing
through demand side management interventions and its long-term climate-related goals by committing to
enable savings of 2,000 million kl of water by 2030. achieve ‘Net Zero Operations’ by 2050 which will entail
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 93

[PAGE 112]
Report of the Board of Directors
decarbonisation of its scope 1 and scope 2 emissions Business Conduct (NGRBC) issued by the Ministry of
i.e., electrical and thermal energy-related emissions in Corporate Affairs, Government of India.
own operations. Additionally, your Company will continue
During the year, your Company sustained its ‘AA’ rating
to collaborate with its extended ecosystem for facilitating
by MSCI-ESG for the seventh consecutive year, the
decarbonisation of emissions across the value chain
highest rating among global tobacco majors. Based on
(scope 3 emissions) as well as setting up systems for
its ESG score as assessed by S&P Global Corporate
monitoring scope 3 emissions in line with emerging
Sustainability Assessment (CSA), your Company has also
standards.
been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging
To achieve its Sustainability 2.0 vision, your Company Markets Index for the fifth year in a row. In FY 2023-24,
continues to strengthen its management approach which your Company entered the prestigious ‘A List’ for
is guided by a comprehensive set of sustainability policies CDP Water with a ‘Leadership Level’ score of ‘A’, which
and is being implemented across the organisation. is higher than the Asia and Global average of ‘C’. For CDP
Your Company has put in place robust mechanisms for Climate, your Company had achieved ‘Leadership Level’
engaging with key stakeholders, identification of material score of ‘A -’ in FY 2023-24, which is higher than the
sustainability issues and progressively monitoring and Asia and Global average of ‘C’. Your Company’s CDP
mitigating the impacts along the value chain of each scores for FY 2024-25 are still awaited.
Business. Your Company will continue to update these
Contribution to the United Nations Sustainable
systems and processes in line with evolving disclosure
Development Goals (UN SDGs)
standards and Environmental, Social and Governance
Your Company’s Sustainability strategies and Social
(ESG) requirements.
Investment Programmes & interventions, in addition
Your Company’s 21st Sustainability Report published
to their alignment with national priorities, are also well
during the year detailed the progress made across all
positioned to contribute to the achievement of India’s
dimensions of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ for FY 2023-24.
commitment under the UN SDGs. For instance, your
This report was prepared in conformance with
Company’s programme on Climate Smart Agriculture
‘In Accordance – Comprehensive’ criteria of the
is aligned to the Government’s National Mission for
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and is
Sustainable Agriculture, and also contributes to the
third-party assured to ‘Reasonable Level’ as per
achievement of multiple SDGs, including SDG 13
International Standard on Assurance Engagements
(Climate Action), SDG 15 (Life on Land), SDG 1
(ISAE) 3000. The report continues to be aligned to the
(No Poverty), SDG 2 (Zero Hunger) and SDG
requirements of the Integrated Reporting Framework
12 (Responsible Consumption and Production).
as well. In addition to the Sustainability Report, your
Your Company’s multi-dimensional environmental and
Company published its first Nature Report in line with
social interventions which have been scaled up over
the recommendations of Taskforce on Nature-related
the years contribute favourably to all 17 UN SDGs.
Financial Disclosures (TNFD).
A comprehensive statement linking your Company’s
Your Company’s Sustainability Report for FY 2024-25 interventions to the SDGs including corresponding targets
is being prepared and will be made available on your will be available in your Company’s Sustainability Report
Company’s corporate website in due course. In addition, the for FY 2024-25.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (BRSR),
Building Climate Resilience
as mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (SEBI) for the year under review is annexed to the Your Company recognises the urgent need to combat
Report and Accounts. The BRSR maps the sustainability climate change for building a more secure future and
performance of your Company against the nine principles the role it can play in enabling a net-zero economy.
forming part of the National Guidelines on Responsible To address the risks of climate change, your Company’s
94 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 113]
Report of the Board of Directors
climate strategy places equal emphasis on transitioning to Energy Conservation and Renewable Energy
a low carbon economy and adapting to the worst impacts
As a responsible corporate citizen, your Company has
of climate change.
made a commitment to reduce dependence on energy
Your Company is pursuing a low carbon growth strategy from fossil fuels. Accordingly, appropriate green features
through extensive decarbonisation programmes across are being incorporated in all factories, warehouses and
its value chain. These include increasing the share of office complexes with many of them certified at the highest
renewable energy, continuous reduction of specific level by either the US Green Building Council (USGBC)
or Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). During the
energy, construction of green buildings, greening
year, despite significant increase in scale of operations,
logistics & optimising distance-to-market, and promoting
your Company sourced nearly 52% of its total energy
regenerative agriculture practices in agri-value chains.
requirements from renewable sources such as biomass,
Your Company is also conducting Life-Cycle Analysis (LCA)
wind and solar. Your Company has been investing in
studies for developing a portfolio of innovative and
expanding renewable footprint across both thermal
sustainable products in line with growing consumer
and electrical energy. The recently commissioned
preference for climate friendly products.
state-of-the-art and future-ready High Pressure
Additionally, in order to address short-medium term as Recovery Boiler at the Bhadrachalam mill of your
well as long-term physical risks of climate change, your Company’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business
Company is working with climate experts to conduct replaced conventional soda recovery boilers thereby
comprehensive climate risk and vulnerability assessments reducing carbon footprint through lower coal
using climate models across its key agri value chains and consumption. In addition to this, your Company
operating locations (factories and warehouses). These installed capacity of over 174 MW 10 of solar and
assessments utilise latest AI-enabled climate modelling wind power across the country to meet its electrical
tools for projecting the extent of risk from climate hazards energy requirements.
related to changes in temperature, precipitation, sea
Your Company continues its efforts towards meeting 100%
level rise, flooding and other extreme weather events of purchased grid electricity requirements from renewable
over decadal time frames covering the period till 2100 sources by 2030 and sustaining 50% renewable energy
under various Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) share in its total energy consumption based on a
scenarios (SSP1-2.6, SSP2-4.5 and SSP5-8.5). Detailed mix of energy conservation and renewable energy
farm-level studies have been conducted to understand investments, despite significant enhancement in its scale
the potential adverse impacts of climate change on your of operations going forward.
Company’s key agri-value chains. These risk assessments
GHG and Carbon Sequestration
help further calibrate the climate resilience measures that
are being implemented across your Company’s value The GHG inventory of your Company for FY 2024-25
chains. For major crops like wheat, pulpwood and leaf compiled according to the ISO 14064 Standard has been
tobacco among others, there is significant and sustained assured by an independent third party. The GHG inventory
work being done by your Company on the development covers emissions from your Company’s operations and
of climate-tolerant varieties as well as dissemination of GHG removals from your Company’s large-scale forestry
climate-resilient and regenerative agronomic practices programmes. Your Company’s Social and Farm Forestry
in the growing areas. Around 140 locations across your initiatives, besides sequestering carbon from the
Company’s own operations and the extended value chain atmosphere, help towards utilisation of degraded
have been assessed for climate risk. Based on the wasteland, prevent soil erosion, enhance organic matter
content in soil and increase ground water recharge.
findings of these assessments, detailed site-specific
studies are being undertaken for developing contextual
10 Excluding renewable energy assets transferred to ITC Hotels Limited post
location-specific adaptation plans and strategies. demerger.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 95