[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 88-90

[PAGE 88]
Report of the Board of Directors
utilisation at the facility was progressively ramped up The Business has consistently demonstrated execution
during the year. excellence vis-à-vis key operational parameters by
implementing various operational excellence tools and
The Business caters to the packaging requirements of
projects. These initiatives focus on improving efficiency,
leading players across several industry segments viz.
reducing waste, and enhancing quality, supported by
Food & Beverage, Personal Care, Home Care, Footwear,
employee skill development. The Business amplified
Consumer Electronics & Electricals, QSR, Pharma,
and sustained these benefits through deployment of
Liquor and Tobacco. The Business continues to be
new-age Industry 4.0 technologies and digital facilitation
acknowledged as a ‘first choice packaging partner’ by
by establishing a core foundation of IT-OT integration
several reputed FMCG companies in the country for
across all units.
providing superior and cost-effective packaging solutions.
During the year, the Business received the prestigious
The Business also provides strategic support to your
WorldStar and AsiaStar awards in the categories of
Company’s FMCG Businesses and Cigarettes Business
pack premiumisation and sustainability. The Business
by facilitating faster turnaround for new launches,
also received several national level awards such as the
innovative & sustainable packaging solutions, design
IFCA Star Award and SIES SOP Star Award for
changes and ensuring security of supplies.
its excellence in Packaging. The Business was
Amidst sluggish consumer demand and heightened also recognised as the Packaging Company of the
competitive intensity in the packaging and printing industry, Year 2024 - Folding Cartons (Large Volumes) & Packaging
the Business continues to aggressively pursue new Convertor of the Year 2024 (Foods & Beverages)
business development across various segments. During by PrintWeek.
the year, the Business acquired several key accounts,
All four units of the Business are certified under
creating a sound base for robust growth going forward.
the Integrated Management System, consisting of
The Business continues to craft innovative packaging ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018.
solutions leveraging its deep understanding of Cartons Packaging lines at Tiruvottiyur and Haridwar
end-user needs and the capabilities of your Company’s units received the ‘Grade A’ and the Nadiad unit received
Life Sciences and Technology Centre. The Business ‘Grade AA’ - Brand Reputation Compliance Global
further scaled up the flagship ‘InnovPack’ campaign Standards (BRCGS) certifications for global standards in
targeting specific end-use segments with potential for packaging materials, a key accreditation for supplies to
rapid adoption of sustainable packaging and plastic the packaged foods industry. All key units of the Business
substitution solutions. Along with a pipeline of solutions have Sedex certifications for social ethical compliances;
developed through molecular science research, such as with the Business also receiving the Ecovadis Bronze
‘Bioseal’ (compostable coating to replace plastics), certification for sustainability performance.
‘Oxyblock’ (recyclable coating solution to enhance barrier Notwithstanding the recent headwinds in the sector, the
properties in packaging) and ‘Germ free coating’ (solution Indian packaging industry is positioned for significant
for microbial free packaging surface addressing the growth in the near term, considering the low per capita
consumer consciousness towards hygiene and safety), packaging consumption of appx. 10 kgs per annum
the Business continued to focus on developing several in India as against per capita consumption of
innovative solutions towards ‘Reducing, Reusing and 60 to 100 kgs per annum in Advanced Economies.
Recycling’ of plastic substrates; these are under various Demand for consumer linked packaging in India is
stages of commercialisation. expected to be further benefited by rising affluence,
Your Company’s Packaging and Printing Business further scaled up
the flagship ‘InnovPack’ campaign targeting specific end-use segments with
potential for rapid adoption of sustainable packaging and
plastic substitution solutions.
70 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 89]
Report of the Board of Directors
favourable demographics and growing share of with international buyers of Indian Burley tobacco by
Modern Trade and e-Commerce. Growing awareness facilitating increased crop production, adopting Weather
of decarbonisation and heightened regulatory attention Resilient Tobacco Production Systems and strengthening
on plastic packaging are expected to drive growth crop competitiveness leveraging its sustainable tobacco
in sustainable packaging, including recyclable and programme. Deeper farmer & customer engagement,
circular solutions. operational agility and supply chain efficiency enabled
the Business to deliver enhanced value to customers and
With world-class technology across a diverse range of
consolidate its pre-eminent position as the largest Indian
platforms, leadership in sustainable packaging solutions
exporter of unmanufactured tobacco.
and best-in-class quality management systems, the
Packaging and Printing Business has established itself The Business has enhanced focus across the tobacco
as a one-stop packaging solutions provider to several value chain on the key vectors of Quality, Consistency,
industry segments viz. Food & Beverage, Personal Care, Compliance, Climate risk mitigation and Sustainability.
Home Care, QSR, Footwear, Consumer Electronics, To deliver on these parameters, sustained investments
Pharma and Tobacco. With focused investments in are being made in your Company’s Green Leaf Threshing
skill development and a distributed manufacturing plants (GLT) at Anaparthi, Chirala and Mysuru towards
footprint, the Business is well positioned to grow its capacity enhancement, delivering world-class quality and
marquee customer base while continuing to service the upgrading processing technology. Crop & region-specific
requirements of your Company’s FMCG Businesses. agronomic practices are being implemented at scale to
meet new and emerging customer needs.
AGRI BUSINESS
The Business continues to set benchmarks in leaf
Leaf Tobacco threshing operations through focused initiatives and
innovative technological & digital solutions such as real
Global demand for leaf tobacco exceeded supply during the
time chemistry measurement & analysis (chemosensory
year, due to supply disruptions in major sourcing regions
evaluation) for finished goods, Historian AI/ML engine for
caused by adverse weather events and international
advanced data analytics, AI based NTRM (Non-Tobacco
manufacturers rebuilding depleted inventory levels from
Related Matter) removal system, automation of material
previous years’ crop shortages. Despite growth in Indian
handling, etc.
Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco crop production during
the year, the surge in global demand caused heightened Strategic cost management remains a key focus area
competitive intensity amongst leaf exporters resulting for the Business. Digital tools such as AI/ML powered
in sharp rise in FCV procurement prices for the third real-time price discovery system continue to be scaled
consecutive year. up facilitating efficient leaf tobacco buying across auction
platforms. Several other digital initiatives, implemented
The Business continued to leverage its deep customer
across the value chain in recent years, have led to improved
relationships, crop development expertise, superior
operating efficiencies in areas of crop development,
product quality, world-class processing facilities and strong
leaf procurement and supply chain.
sustainability credentials to strengthen its position as a
reliable supply chain partner for global customers besides Synergistic R&D initiatives with focus on varietal
accessing new customers/markets. During the year, the development, climate smart farming techniques, farm
Business continued to increase its share of business level digital interventions and usage of water efficient
The Leaf Tobacco Business continued to leverage its deep customer relationships,
crop development expertise, superior product quality, world-class processing facilities and
strong sustainability credentials to strengthen its position as a reliable supply chain partner
for global customers besides accessing new customers/markets.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 71

[PAGE 90]
Report of the Board of Directors
technologies are being scaled up towards enhancing India and high import duty/tariffs levied in several markets,
productivity & product quality, reducing cultivation costs, including the USA and Europe, also continue to weigh on
strengthening resilience and capacity building of the farm the competitiveness of Indian leaf tobacco exports.
value chain to increase crop security and enhance farmer
As stated in earlier years, a more balanced regulatory
incomes.
and taxation regime that cognises for the unique tobacco
The Business has stepped up its engagement with farmers consumption pattern prevalent in India and the economic
to implement integrated energy management initiatives realities of the country remains critical to support the
spanning energy conservation, increasing alternative Indian tobacco farmer and the 46 million livelihoods
fuel usage and energy plantations towards achieving fuel dependent on tobacco. It is also imperative that the Indian
self-sufficiency in the curing process of FCV tobacco. leaf tobacco sector receives necessary policy support,
The Business implemented several decarbonisation including restoring export incentives to earlier levels, to
measures for farms, GLTs, and supply chain operations enhance the competitiveness of unmanufactured tobacco
throughout the year. The electrical energy needs of all exports from India and contribute to increase in farmer
three GLTs are substantially met from renewable sources incomes. According to an ASSOCHAM TARI 8 Study,
in line with your Company’s philosophy of adopting a the tobacco sector in India contributes substantial
low-carbon growth path. In addition to these initiatives, socio-economic benefits in terms of agricultural
your Company is taking up integrated watershed employment, farm incomes, revenue generation and
management programmes to ensure availability of water foreign exchange earnings. Your Company continues to
for irrigation during critical phases of the crop cycle.
engage with policy makers on these matters.
In recognition of its commitment to the highest
The Business will continue to provide strategic sourcing
standards of Sustainability, EHS & Quality, the Business
support to your Company’s Cigarettes Business and
received several awards during the year including the
fortify its leadership position as a major exporter of quality
‘SEEM National Energy Management award’ with
Indian tobacco, thereby catalysing the multiplier impact
Platinum rating for Excellence in Energy Conservation
of increased farmer incomes on the rural economy.
for Chirala GLT, ‘Silver Category in Industrial Safety
With its strong R&D capability, unique crop development
Leadership Award’ from Confederation of Indian Industry
& extension expertise, sustainability leadership,
(CII) for Anaparthi GLT, ‘Excellence Energy Efficient Unit’
digital expertise, state-of-the-art processing facilities
for Mysuru GLT from CII, as well as various awards from
and deep understanding of customer & farmer needs,
the Quality Circle Forum of India and CII for operational
your Company is well positioned to meet the current and
excellence, etc.
emerging requirements of global customers and sustain
While the recent stability in taxes on cigarettes and supply its position as a world-class leaf tobacco organisation.
shortages in global markets has led to an increase in
the demand for Indian leaf tobacco during the year, it is Other Agri Commodities
imperative to address certain structural factors to facilitate Amidst persistent geopolitical tensions, climate
sustained growth and competitiveness of leaf tobacco
uncertainties and macroeconomic challenges, concerns
exports from India. Punitive taxation on the legal cigarette
over global food security and inflation have intensified.
industry has over the years resulted in rapid increase in
Various policy measures implemented by the Government
illicit cigarette trade which has in turn adversely impacted
of India, including stock limits and export restrictions,
demand for Indian leaf tobacco as illicit products do not
use leaf tobacco grown in India. Lower export incentives in 8 ASSOCHAM TARI Study (2019)
A more balanced regulatory and taxation regime that cognises for the
unique tobacco consumption pattern prevalent in India and the economic realities
of the country remains critical to support the Indian tobacco farmer and
the 46 million livelihoods dependent on tobacco.
72 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025