[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 128-130

[PAGE 128]
Report of the Board of Directors
the water quality was poor. With the establishment of The video ‘Desh Ek Raag’ was based on Raag Desh
36 new RO plants during the year, a total of 205 RO plants and featured scholars of the Academy. The year also
are operational providing safe drinking water to over marked its first Thumri Festival in March 2025 featuring
2.5 lakh rural population. renowned artists of the genre as well as scholars of the
Academy. Creation of the next generation of masters of
ITC Sangeet Research Academy
Hindustani Classical music for the propagation of a
The ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), precious legacy continues to be the Academy’s objective.
established in 1977, is an embodiment of your Company’s
sustained commitment to a priceless national heritage. Forging Multi-Stakeholder Partnerships
Your Company’s pledge towards ensuring enduring
Your Company’s Social Investments Programme lays
excellence in Classical music education continues to
continuous emphasis on building partnerships of value
drive ITC SRA in furthering its objective of preserving
for driving innovation & gaining contemporary knowledge
and propagating Hindustani Classical Music based on the
while effectively amplifying and executing programmes.
age-old principle of ‘Guru Shishya Parampara’.
Your Company has over the years formed Knowledge
The Academy is modelled as a professionally run institution
Partnerships with several national & international
that epitomises the teaching of Hindustani Raga Music.
organisations/agencies to maintain contemporariness
Through its eminent Gurus, it imparts intensive training
and leverage latest knowledge/technical know-how to
and quality education in Hindustani Classical music
continuously improve the quality of programmes.
to its scholars. The present Gurus of the Academy are
Padma Bhushan Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty, Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), aimed at pooling
Padmashri Pandit Ulhas Kashalkar, resources, and partnership with Governments are
Pandit Partha Chatterjee, Vidushi Subhra Guha, effectively leveraged to scale-up and amplify programmes
Pandit Uday Bhawalkar, Shri Omkar Dadarkar, implemented in your Company’s catchment areas.
Shri Abir Hossain and Shri Brajeswar Mukherjee. During the year, three new PPPs were signed.
Pandit Uday Bhawalkar was conferred the
The meaningful contribution made by your Company’s
Rashtriya Kalidas Samman by Government of
Social Investments Programme to address some of
Madhya Pradesh in November 2024 for the year 2022-23.
the country’s key development challenges, has been
The Academy’s focus continues to be on nurturing possible in significant measure, due to your Company’s
exceptionally gifted students selected from across partnerships with implementation partners such as
the country through a system of multi-level auditions. AFPRO, Anudip Foundation, Bandhan Konnagar,
Several scholars of the Academy have performed at Cheshire Disability Trust, DHAN Foundation,
various music festivals and have also been recipient Don Bosco Tech Society, DSC, Dr. Reddy’s Foundation,
of prestigious awards and accolades. Additionally, Educate Girls, FES, FINISH, IGD, KHPT, MYKAPS,
the Academy has presented its scholars and young MYRADA, Makkala Jagriti, Manav Vikas Sansthan,
musicians in ITC Mini Sangeet Sammelans, concerts NCHSE, Pratham, SEWA Bharat, SMGVS, Umang,
and Baithaks in locations such as Jabalpur, Hubli,
WASH Institute, Water for People, Youth4Jobs and
Dharwad, Sirsi, Lucknow, Jodhpur, Dehradun, Goa, Pune
Youth Invest amongst others. These partnerships, which
and Bangalore enabling the Academy to fulfil its
bring together the best-in-class management practices
avowed objective of preserving and propagating
of your Company and the development experience
Hindustani Classical Music.
and mobilisation skills of implementation partners, will
On the occasion of India’s 78th Independence Day, continue to provide innovative grassroot solutions to some
ITC SRA composed a special piece of music as a tribute of India’s most challenging problems of development
to the nation, which was presented on 15th August. in the years to come.
110 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 129]
Report of the Board of Directors
CSR Expenditure of safety in business operations. These initiatives are
bringing in positive behavioural changes.
The annual report on Corporate Social Responsibility
activities, as required under Sections 134 and 135 of the Several national awards and certifications received by
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 of the Companies various units reaffirm your Company’s commitment to
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 provide safe and healthy workplace to all.
and Rule 9 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, is
R&D, QUALITY AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
provided in the Annexure forming part of this Report.
Your Company’s state-of-the-art Life Sciences and
Environment, Health & Safety
Technology Centre (LSTC) in Bengaluru is at the core
Your Company’s Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) of driving science-led product innovation to build and
strategies are directed towards achieving the greenest support your Company’s portfolio of world-class products
and safest operations across all your Company’s units and brands. Over the years, LSTC has emerged as
by optimising natural resource usage and providing a a robust innovation engine that is a key enabler of the
safe and healthy workplace. Systemic efforts continue ‘ITC Next’ growth strategy. Reinforced with world-class
to be made towards natural resource conservation by infrastructure, resourced with a diverse team of over
continuously improving resource-use efficiencies. 400 highly qualified scientists, LSTC continues to drive
various initiatives to provide differentiation and competitive
Your Company believes that a safe and healthy work
edge to your Company’s brands and products.
environment is a pre-requisite for ensuring employee
well-being and adopting best practices in occupational Driving purposeful innovations that fulfil the needs of the
health & safety bears a direct impact on overall Indian consumer through superior offerings remains the
performance. With an aim to percolate safety deeper key objective of LSTC. Centres of Excellence across
into your Company’s operational practices and achieve domains viz. Biosciences, Agri-sciences & Materials
the ‘Zero Accident’ goal, your Company has adopted a sciences enabled building capabilities over the years
comprehensive EHS strategy founded on two pillars: to cater to the constantly evolving needs of consumers.
‘Safety by Design’ and ‘Safety by Culture’. Focused research across identified domains viz. Health
& Wellness, Formulation Design, Sustainable Materials &
Safety
Packaging, Agro-forestry and Crop Science has enabled
Your Company sustained focus on ‘Safety by Design’ the teams to harness contemporary advances in relevant
by continuously striving to improve safety performance core areas to translate ‘proofs of concept’ to novel product
and incorporating best-in-class engineering standards opportunities. Bearing testimony to LSTC’s innovation
for all investments in the built environment. Designs for capabilities while building the intellectual assets for your
all new greenfield & brownfield project investments are Company, over 800 patent applications have been filed
scrutinised to ensure compliance with relevant standards till date. Robust risk management practices are in place
and codes on safety. Periodic Environment, Health & to ensure that your Company’s intellectual properties
Safety audits continue to be carried out in operational remain adequately protected and to ensure mitigation of
units to verify compliance with relevant standards. information and infrastructure risk.
To drive a culture of safety, your Company, in addition Research programmes and projects are structured
to comprehensive focus on training, continues to hold through close alignment with the various Businesses of
structured conversations with workers on ‘Safe and your Company resulting in a robust innovation pipeline.
Unsafe’ Acts. These are supplemented by adoption of Additionally, in line with your Company’s relentless focus
keystone behaviours that inculcates individual ownership on operational excellence and quality, each Business
for safe behaviour. Your Company has also made use is mandated to continuously innovate on materials,
of Design Thinking principles for seamless integration processes and systems to enhance their competitiveness.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 111

[PAGE 130]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company has been a forerunner in introducing ideas are fully integrated across the value chain from
first-to-market innovative products for Indian consumers. farm to fork.
In today’s operating scenario of geopolitical tensions
Infrastructure and capabilities are strengthened
and inflationary pressures, LSTC scientists and
continuously keeping in pace with the global developments
product development teams continue to enable various
in science and technology. Expanding capabilities include
ITC businesses to deliver a range of differentiated,
spreading the acreage of new tree clones with superior
superior quality products at competitive costs. Innovative
properties, developing modern instrumentation for testing
science-based Platform projects have been developed
very low levels of actives or contaminants, measuring
to solve a range of consumer and technical product
barrier properties (air and water permeability) of coated
challenges. Novel technologies are continuously being
paper substrate, etc.
leveraged to drive creation of healthier foods through
systematic reduction in salt, sugar and fat without Rigorous systems, processes and industry best practices
compromising on sensory attributes. Leading edge are continuously upgraded to secure quality certifications
technology platforms in Personal Health & Hygiene, of the highest levels – a key enabler in delivering products
Health & Wellness continue to power innovation and that follow the highest standards in quality, safety and
develop next generation product offerings to serve efficacy to the Indian consumer. All branded packaged
emerging consumer needs. LSTC’s unique competencies foods manufacturing units of your Company not only
in Sustainable Materials and Packaging have enabled have ISO quality certification but also follow the highest
development of packaging options with high degree standards under the integrated food quality management
of recycled plastics content and novel barrier coating system-FSSC 22000; these systems ensure adherence
solutions to create next generation environmentally to internationally accepted quality standards in producing
friendly packaging solutions. safe and high-quality food. All manufacturing units of
the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses (including
In Agro-Forestry and Crop Science, your Company’s
contract manufacturing units) operate in compliance
scientists have established different cutting-edge tools &
with stringent food safety and quality standards.
technology platforms for improving tree & crop species of
Your Company’s food quality assurance laboratories
your Company’s interests (like yield, quality, abiotic & biotic
are accredited by the National Accreditation Board for
stress) for securing the raw material. Ongoing research
Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) under ISO
has major emphasis on developing climate resilient crops
17025, a global standard for testing and calibrating labs,
and pulp wood species in order to address the security
which guarantees quality. Additionally, the quality of all
of raw material supplies across your Company’s value
FMCG products of your Company is monitored through
chains and also ensuring enhanced farmer profitability.
best-in-class customer-centric ‘Quality Control and
Research on wheat and potato varietal securitisation are
Quality Assurance Processes’ and ‘Product Quality
at advanced stages of deployment to achieve flexibility
Ratings Systems’ (PQRS) enhancing competitive
in sourcing of raw material, create region-specific blends
superiority of your Company’s product offerings.
and ensure robust agro-climatic adaptability for growing
and sourcing raw materials closer to the factories at In its quest to continuously enhance efficiency and
competitive costs, in addition to reducing the carbon be future-ready, LSTC is developing and deploying
footprint. Future-ready, alternate value chains that cutting-edge digital tools for quality performance analytics,
mitigate risks arising out of disruptions to existing sourcing benchmarking and strengthen quality management
models continue to be explored. LSTC has deployed systems. Going forward, LSTC will continue to identify
various digital transformation tools at farm level to growth opportunities leveraging your Company’s
bring in predictive capability with agility. LSTC, in diverse core competencies and R&D insights emerging
collaboration with the Agri and Branded Packaged Foods from close consumer interactions and contemporary
Businesses, endeavours to ensure that science-based science & technology.
112 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025