[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 261-263

[PAGE 261]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Loss unless the asset represents an equity investment, Government Grant
in which case the cumulative fair value adjustments Group entities may receive government grants that require
previously taken to reserves are reclassified within compliance with certain conditions related to the entity’s
equity. operating activities or are provided to the entity by way
Income Recognition: Interest income is recognised in the of financial assistance on the basis of certain qualifying
Statement of Profit and Loss using the effective interest criteria.
method. Dividend income is recognised in the Statement Government grants are recognised when there is
of Profit and Loss when the right to receive dividend is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received upon
established. the Group entity complying with the conditions attached to
the grant. Accordingly, government grants:
Financial Liabilities
(a) related to or used for assets, are deducted from the
Borrowings, trade payables and other financial liabilities
carrying amount of the asset.
are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently
measured at amortised cost. Any discount or premium on (b) related to incurring specific expenditures are taken to
redemption / settlement is recognised in the Statement of the Statement of Profit and Loss on the same basis and
Profit and Loss as finance cost over the life of the liability in the same periods as the expenditures incurred.
using the effective interest method and adjusted to the (c) by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain
liability figure disclosed in the Balance Sheet. qualifying criteria are recognised in the Statement of
Profit and Loss as they become receivable.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is
extinguished, that is, when the contractual obligation is In the unlikely event that a grant previously recognised is
discharged, cancelled or on expiry. ultimately not received, it is treated as a change in estimate
and the amount cumulatively recognised is expensed in the
Offsetting Financial Instruments
Statement of Profit and Loss.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount
Dividend Distribution
is included in the Balance Sheet where there is a legally
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and Dividends paid (including income tax thereon, if any) are
there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the recognised in the period in which the interim dividends are
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. approved by the Board of Directors, or in respect of the final
dividend when approved by the shareholders.
Equity Instruments
Employee Benefits
Equity instruments are recognised at the value of the
proceeds, net of direct costs of the capital issue. Short-term employee benefits are expensed in the period
in which the employee renders the related service on an
Revenue
undiscounted basis. A liability is recognised for the amount
Revenue is measured at the transaction price that the expected to be paid within twelve months, if the Company
Company receives or expects to receive as consideration has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay the
for goods supplied and services rendered, net of returns same as a result of past service provided by the employee
and estimates of variable consideration such as discounts and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
to customers. Revenue from the sale of goods includes The Group makes contributions to both defined benefit
Excise Duties and National Calamity Contingent Duty and defined contribution schemes which are mainly
which are payable on manufacture of goods but excludes administered through duly constituted and approved Trusts.
taxes such as VAT and Goods and Services Tax which are
Provident Fund contributions are in the nature of defined
payable in respect of sale of goods and services.
contribution scheme. In respect of employees who are
Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised members of constituted and approved trusts, the Group
when the Group performs its obligations to its customers recognises contribution payable to such trusts as an expense
and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably including any shortfall in interest between the amount of
and recovery of the consideration is probable. The timing interest realised by the investment and the interest payable
of such recognition in case of sale of goods is when the to members at the rate declared by the Government of
control over the same is transferred to the customer, which India. In respect of other employees, provident funds are
is mainly upon delivery and in case of services, in the period deposited with the Government administered funds and
in which such services are rendered. recognised as expense.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 243

[PAGE 262]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
The Group makes contribution to defined contribution quantum of reimbursement is not material - the materiality
pension plan. The contribution payable is recognised as an threshold being ` 5 Crores for each entity for a financial year.
expense, when an employee renders the related service.
Stock Appreciation Linked Reward (SAR) Plan
The Group also makes contribution to defined benefit
Cash Settled SAR units are granted to eligible employees
pension and gratuity plan. The cost of providing benefits
under the ITC Employee Cash Settled Stock Appreciation
under the defined benefit obligation is calculated by
Linked Reward Plan (‘ITC ESARP’) , as may be decided by
independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
the CMC / Nomination & Compensation Committee / Board.
Service costs and net interest expense or income is
For such cash settled SAR units, a liability is initially
reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss. Gain or Loss
measured at fair value on the grant date and is subsequently
on account of remeasurements are recognised immediately
remeasured at each reporting period, until settled. The
through other comprehensive income in the period in which
fair value of ITC ESARP units granted is recognised as
they occur.
employee benefits expense in the Statement of Profit and
The employees of the Group are entitled to compensated
Loss over the period in which the performance and / or
leave for which the Group records the liability based on
service conditions are fulfilled for employees of the Group.
actuarial valuation computed using projected unit credit
In case of ITC ESARP units granted to employees on
method. These benefits are unfunded.
deputation and to employees of the group companies, the
Actual disbursements made under the Workers’ Voluntary Group generally recovers the fair value of ITC ESARP units
Retirement Scheme are accounted as revenue expenses. from the concerned group companies.
Employee Share Based Compensation Stock options granted by a subsidiary
The Board of Directors of a subsidiary have approved an
Stock Options
Equity Based Long Term Incentive Plan for certain eligible
Equity settled Stock Options are granted to eligible
employees of the Group under the ITC Infotech India Limited
employees under the ITC Employee Stock Option
Employee Stock Option Plan 2024. The eligible employees
Schemes (‘ITC ESOS’), as may be decided by the
for this purpose shall be such permanent employees, as
Nomination & Compensation Committee / Board. Further,
may be determined by the Nomination and Remuneration
eligible employees of the Company have been granted
Committee (NRC) of the subsidiary.
equity settled Stock Options under the ITC Hotels Special
These Options have been recognised as cash-settled
Purpose Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘ITCHL SP
options and accordingly, a liability is initially measured at
ESOS’), in terms of the ‘Scheme of Arrangement between
fair value on the grant date and is subsequently remeasured
the Company and ITC Hotels Limited, and their respective
at each reporting period, until settled. The fair value of the
shareholders and creditors’.
Options granted is recognised in the Statement of Profit
Under Ind AS, the cost of equity-settled Stock Options is
and Loss over the period in which the performance and / or
recognised based on the fair value of Stock Options as on
service conditions are fulfilled for employees of the Group.
the grant date.
Leases
The fair values of Stock Options granted to the employees
The Group assesses at contract inception whether a
of the Group is recognised as employee benefits expense in
contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a
the Statement of Profit and Loss over the period in which the
lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified
performance and / or service conditions are fulfilled with a
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
corresponding credit in equity for ITC ESOS and recognized
as a financial liability for ITCHL SP ESOS. The fair value Group as a Lessee
of Stock Options, net of recoveries, granted to employees
Right-of-Use (ROU) assets are recognised at inception of
on deputation and to employees of the group companies is
a contract or arrangement for significant lease components
considered as capital contribution / investment.
at cost less lease incentives, if any. ROU assets are
The Group generally recovers the fair value of Stock subsequently measured at cost less accumulated
Options from such group companies, as applicable. It may, depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. The
if recommended by the Corporate Management Committee cost of ROU assets includes the amount of lease liabilities
and approved by the Audit Committee, decide not to seek recognised, initial direct cost incurred and lease payments
such recovery in respect of value of Stock Options from made at or before the lease commencement date. ROU
such companies, who need to conserve financial capacity assets are generally depreciated over the shorter of the
to sustain their business and growth plans and where the lease term and estimated useful lives of the underlying assets
244 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 263]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
on a straight-line basis. Lease term is determined based Income tax, insofar as it relates to items disclosed under
on consideration of facts and circumstances that create an other comprehensive income or equity, is disclosed
economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not to separately under other comprehensive income or equity,
exercise a termination option. Lease payments associated as applicable.
with short-term leases (i.e., those leases that have a lease
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is
term of 12 months or less from the commencement date
legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and
and do not contain a purchase option) and low value leases
liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the
(i.e., where the value of the underlying asset, when new, in
same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities
order of magnitude is ` 5 lakhs or less) are charged to the
are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to
Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the
offset and intends either to settle on net basis, or to realise
term of the relevant lease.
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group recognises lease liabilities measured at the
Claims
present value of lease payments to be made on the date
of recognition of the lease. Such lease liabilities do not Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts are
include variable lease payments (that do not depend on an disclosed after a careful evaluation of the facts and legal
index or a rate), which are recognised as expense in the aspects of the matter involved.
periods in which they are incurred. Interest on lease liability
Provisions
is recognised using the effective interest method. Lease
liabilities are subsequently increased to reflect the accretion Provisions are recognised when, as a result of a past
of interest and reduced for the lease payments made. The event, the Group has a legal or constructive obligation; it
carrying amount of lease liabilities is also remeasured is probable that an outflow of resources will be required
upon modification of lease arrangement or upon change to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably
in the assessment of the lease term. The effect of such estimated. The amount so recognised is a best estimate
remeasurements is adjusted to the value of the ROU assets. of the consideration required to settle the obligation at the
reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties
Group as a Lessor
surrounding the obligation.
Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially
In an event when the time value of money is material, the
all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are
provision is carried at the present value of the cash flows
classified as operating leases. Where the Group is a lessor
estimated to settle the obligation.
under an operating lease, the asset is capitalised within
property, plant and equipment or investment property Operating Segments
and depreciated over its useful economic life. Payments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent
received under operating leases are recognised in the with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating
Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over decision-maker (CODM). The CODM, who is responsible
the term of the lease.
for allocating resources and assessing performance of the
Taxes on Income operating segments, has been identified as the Corporate
Management Committee.
Taxes on income comprise current taxes and deferred
taxes. Current tax in the Statement of Profit and Loss is Segments are organised based on businesses which
provided as the amount of tax payable in respect of taxable have similar economic characteristics as well as exhibit
income for the period using tax rates and tax laws enacted similarities in nature of products and services offered,
during the period, together with any adjustment to tax the nature of production processes, the type and class of
payable in respect of previous years. customer and distribution methods.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences Segment revenue arising from third party customers is
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and reported on the same basis as revenue in the financial
the amounts used for taxation purposes (tax base), at the statements. Inter-segment revenue is reported on the basis
tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by of transactions which are primarily market led. Segment
the end of the reporting period. results represent profits before finance charges, unallocated
Deferred tax assets are recognised for the future tax corporate expenses and taxes.
consequences to the extent it is probable that future “Unallocated Corporate Expenses” include revenue and
taxable profits will be available against which the deductible expenses that relate to initiatives / costs attributable to the
temporary differences can be utilised. Group as a whole.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 245