[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 337-339

[PAGE 337]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The timing of revenue recognition is relevant to the Evaluated the design, implementation and operating
reported performance of the Group. The management effectiveness of Group’s controls in respect of revenue
considers revenue as a key measure for evaluation of recognition.
performance. There is a risk of revenue being recorded
Tested the effectiveness of such controls over
before control is transferred.
revenue cut off at year-end.
Refer Note 1 to the Consolidated Ind AS Financial
On a sample basis, tested supporting documentation
Statements - Material Accounting Policies and
for sales transactions recorded during the year which
Note 23A / 23B.
included sales invoices, customer contracts and
shipping documents.
Performed an increased level of substantive testing
in respect of sales transactions recorded during the
period closer to the year end and subsequent to the
year end.
Compared revenue with historical trends and where
appropriate, conducted further enquiries and testing.
Assessed disclosures in financial statements in
respect of revenue, as specified in Ind AS 115.
Accounting for demerger of Hotels business
The Group, in the current year, has given effect to the Our audit procedures included the following:
scheme of demerger of Hotels business (demerged
Obtained and read the Scheme and final order passed
undertaking) into ITC Hotels Limited (ITCHL) pursuant
by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal to
to the Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’). The Scheme
understand its key terms and conditions.
was approved by the Hon’ble National Company
Evaluated the design and tested the operating
Law Tribunal, Kolkata bench vide its order dated
effectiveness of the internal financial controls
October 04, 2024 and the appointed date and the
(including management review controls) relevant
effective date of the Scheme is January 01, 2025.
for recording the impact of the Scheme and related
By virtue of this scheme being effective in the current year,
disclosures.
the said demerged undertaking has been disclosed
Tested the Management’s working for identification
as discontinued operations till the effective date of the
of specific assets and liabilities of the demerged
demerger.
undertaking and relevant impact in the reserves as
At the appointed and effective date, the Hotels business
per the Scheme.
of the Company (along with all assets and liabilities
Assessed the appropriateness of accounting treatment
thereof, excluding ITC Grand Central, Mumbai) and
of this demerger and compared with applicable Indian
the net assets of Hospitality entities as defined in the
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) and the approved
Scheme were transferred to ITCHL on a going concern
accounting treatment in the Scheme.
basis in accordance with the approved Scheme.
Obtained the report of the management’s expert for
Demerger is a significant non-routine transaction
determination of fair value of demerged undertaking.
and requires determination of fair value of demerged
Evaluated the competence and objectivity of the
undertaking for the purposes of accounting as per
management’s expert.
Ind AS which involves significant judgements and
estimates which are sensitive to underlying assumptions Involved our valuation specialist to review the
(forecast of future cash flows, growth rate, weighted appropriateness of methodology and key assumptions
average cost of capital, discount rates etc). These considered by management to determine fair value of
judgements / estimates could have an impact on the the demerged undertaking.
recognition of the amount of liability for assets to
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the
be distributed to shareholders at fair value and the
disclosures made with respect to the accounting of
consequential gain as recognised in the consolidated
the transaction as required by the applicable Ind AS.
Ind AS financial statements.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 319

[PAGE 338]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Due to the magnitude and complexity of the transaction,
and considering the assumptions and estimates
required to be made by the management for the
purpose of accounting and presentation / disclosures
in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, this is
considered as a key audit matter.
Refer Note 30(viii) to the consolidated Ind AS financial
statements.
We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015,
Auditor’s Report Thereon as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the
companies included in the Group and of its associates
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible
for the other information. The other information comprises and joint ventures are responsible for maintenance of
the information included in the Annual report, but does not adequate accounting records in accordance with the
include the consolidated Ind AS financial statements and provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of their
our auditor’s report thereon. respective companies and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; selection and application
Our opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial
of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments
statements does not cover the other information and we
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
the design, implementation and maintenance of
In connection with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness
information and, in doing so, consider whether such other
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation
information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated
and presentation of the consolidated Ind AS financial
Ind AS financial statements or our knowledge obtained in
statements that give a true and fair view and are free
the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
which have been used for the purpose of preparation
there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements by the
report in this regard. Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated Ind AS financial statements,
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated
the respective Board of Directors of the companies included
Ind AS Financial Statements
in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible
are responsible for assessing the ability of their respective
for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated
companies to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
Ind AS financial statements in terms of the requirements
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated
going concern basis of accounting unless management
financial position, consolidated financial performance
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations,
including other comprehensive income, consolidated
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
cash flows and changes in equity of the Group including
its associates and joint ventures in accordance with Those respective Board of Directors of the companies
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, included in the Group and of its associates and joint
including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) ventures are also responsible for overseeing the financial
specified under section 133 of the Act read with the reporting process of their respective companies.
320 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 339]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
report to the related disclosures in the consolidated
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
Ind AS financial statements or, if such disclosures are
whether the consolidated Ind AS financial statements as
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high
conditions may cause the Group and its associates and
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a joint ventures to cease to continue as a going concern.
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements,
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated
expected to influence the economic decisions of users Ind AS financial statements represent the underlying
taken on the basis of these consolidated Ind AS financial transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
statements. presentation.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding
professional judgment and maintain professional the financial information of the entities or business
skepticism throughout the audit. We also: activities within the Group and its associates and joint
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement ventures of which we are the independent auditors
of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, and whose financial information we have audited, to
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit express an opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit statements. We are responsible for the direction,
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a supervision and performance of the audit of the financial
basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material statements of such entities included in the consolidated
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one Ind AS financial statements of which we are the
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, independent auditors. For the other entities included
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, which
the override of internal control. have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to
performance of the audits carried out by them. We
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i)
of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our We communicate with those charged with governance of
opinion on whether the Holding Company has adequate the Holding Company and such other entities included
internal financial controls with reference to financial in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements of which
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of we are the independent auditors regarding, among
such controls. other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies audit and significant audit findings, including any significant
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates deficiencies in internal control that we identify during
and related disclosures made by management. our audit.
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use We also provide those charged with governance with a
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material requirements regarding independence, and to communicate
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that with them all relationships and other matters that may
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and
and its associates and joint ventures to continue as a where applicable, related safeguards.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 321