[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 74-76

[PAGE 74]
Report of the Board of Directors
During the year, your Company signed Definitive product formats of badam milk, lassi and buttermilk
Agreements for acquisition of 100% of the share under the mother brand ‘Aashirvaad’. The core
capital of Ample Foods Private Limited (AFPL) in one portfolio of Dark Fantasy milkshakes has been further
or more tranches. AFPL’s flagship brand, ‘Prasuma’, augmented with the launch of a new unique product
is a leading player in the frozen, chilled and ready to ‘Vanilla milkshake with white chocolate’.
cook foods space in India and is a specialist in oriental
– The Confectionery Business continued to nurture
cuisine (viz. momos, baos, Korean fried chicken),
its range of premium portfolio by leveraging
high-quality delicatessens and raw meats, etc.,
‘Fantastik Chocostick’, ‘Jelimals’ and
sells a wide assortment of 170+ products, backed
‘Candyman Fruitee Fun 3 in 1 chews’. The Business
by unparalleled innovation expertise in developing
strengthened its leadership in the wafer rolls
‘Good-for-You’ products. This acquisition will further
category with the launch of ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy’
fortify your Company’s presence in these
crème filled choco wafer rolls. The offerings have
future-facing categories, with current annual market
received excellent consumer response while the
size of over ` 10000 crores and poised for rapid
clutter-breaking communication has enabled strong
growth in the years ahead.
brand recall among target groups.
– On April 4, 2025, your Company completed the first
– ‘Fabelle’ chocolates continue to receive excellent
tranche of acquisition in AFPL to the extent of 43.75%
response from discerning consumers, setting new
of the shareholding of the company, in line with the
benchmarks in the luxury and premium chocolate
Definitive Agreements.
segments. During the year, your Company opened
– ‘Aashirvaad Svasti’ - fresh dairy portfolio continued an exclusive Fabelle store at Bengaluru airport,
its strong growth momentum during the year, led by expanding the availability of the luxury range of
strengthening its premium milk variant ‘Select’ and chocolates beyond the luxury boutiques at ITC Hotels
driving significant growth in value-added products and Quick-Commerce channel. The ‘Sunfeast Fantastik’
(Curd, Lassi, Mishti Doi & Ghee) through superior & range of chocolates, comprising Choco Almond and
differentiated offerings. The fresh dairy portfolio is Fruit & Nut variants launched in the previous year, was
currently available across Bihar, West Bengal & scaled up across markets after receiving excellent
Jharkhand markets and it continues to enhance market feedback from consumers in launch markets. The
penetration through rapid scale-up of its distribution product range was further augmented during the year
network. The Business rolled out a new premium with the launch of ‘Sunfeast Fantastik! 4D’, a unique
variant ‘Shahi Lassi’ under ‘Aashirvaad’ brand which product offering four indulgent layers of crunchy
elicited excellent consumer response in the launch wafer, milk choco, soft caramel and nutty peanuts
markets. Ghee portfolio was further augmented with in every bite. The product, endorsed by celebrities
the launch of a health-focused product proposition, Sreeleela & Siddhant Chaturvedi, has elicited strong
‘Cow Ghee with 90% low cholesterol’. consumer traction.
– The Beverages portfolio has been refreshed with – Exports remain a key focus area for the Branded
launch of innovative offerings to address the evolving Packaged Foods Businesses. In addition to
consumer needs. During the year, the Business Aashirvaad Atta exports, which is already a clear
entered the Ethnic beverages segment, a growing market leader across several markets, the Business
space, with the launch of region-specific offers around has been continuously sighting opportunities to
Exports remain a key focus area for the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses.
In addition to Aashirvaad Atta exports, which is already a clear market leader across
several markets, the Business has been continuously sighting opportunities to scale up
exports of value added adjacencies. The Business is also witnessing green shoots
in exports of other categories such as Biscuits, Noodles and Snacks.
56 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 75]
Report of the Board of Directors
scale up exports of value added adjacencies. category. At the E4M IDMA Awards, the Bingo AI Meme
The Business is also witnessing green shoots in Gallery received a Silver for Best Use of User Generated
exports of other categories such as Biscuits, Noodles Content and Bronze for Leveraging Social Media to
and Snacks, leveraging the equity of its core brands Boost ROI and Engagement; ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy’
such as Aashirvaad, Sunfeast Dark Fantasy, won Silver for Best Digital Innovation with its ‘Biting into a
Sunfeast Moms Magic, Sunfeast YiPPee!, Bingo! and Million Fantasies’ campaign. ‘Sunfeast YiPPee!’ secured
Kitchens of India. a Bronze at Effie Awards for the ‘Better World - Create Magic’
campaign, under Positive Change - Environmental
With the overarching vision to ‘Help India Eat Better’,
Brands category. At the E4M IMA South Awards,
your Company’s Nutrition strategy seeks to create a
sustainable ecosystem anchored on a portfolio of healthier, ITC Mission Millets won Gold in Best Use of Integrated
affordable & accessible ‘Better For You/Free From’ Marketing – FMCG, Bingo Mad Angle Song won
value-added products, supported by responsible policies Gold in Branded Content - Food & Beverages,
in line with national priorities on health and nutrition. Bingo Meme Premier League won Silver in Occasion/Festive
Your Company’s institutional strengths, as aforestated, are Based or Seasonal Marketing – FMCG along with
being leveraged to develop products providing consumers Aashirvaad Masala Karam winning Bronze in
wholesome and enjoyable food experiences. Best Use of TV – FMCG. From advancing nutritional
and sustainable food practices with the ‘Mission Millets’
In line with your Company’s commitment to fostering
campaign to empowering farmers and consumers
nutrition, health and wellness, the Business has launched
alike, the Business earned a Gold SABRE in the
a range of nutrition dense products under the ‘Right Shift’
Marketing to Consumer (New Product) category.
brand to address the nutritional needs of consumers aged
over 40. The portfolio has been curated using natural and The year marked a major step in advancing the Business’
proprietary ingredients developed at LSTC. Anchored digital maturity journey. With the vision of having a
on the vectors of better digestion, strength and energy connected digital ecosystem, the Business has launched
building, your Company launched a range of products Real Time Consumer Data Platform. With the objective of
such as ‘Jaggery Ragi Cookies’, ‘Millet Oats Kheer mix’, consistently engaging with consumers, the Business is also
‘Millet Oats Upma mix’ and ‘Millet Chana Mixture’ during building ‘always-on’ brand experience digital platforms,
the year. The recent acquisition of 24 Mantra Organic rooted in the respective brand philosophies. In this
would also further augment the Business’ portfolio of context, the Business went live with www.letsboing.com
nutrition-led healthy food products. for the Bingo! portfolio – an always on comedy content and
The Businesses continue to use a data driven experiences platform which takes the consumer through
approach to make sharp targeted brand investments, a fun journey of value exchanges through a curated
clutter-breaking communication and deepen consumer selection of amusing local news, newsmakers, memes,
engagements across all touch points, along with focused and horoscopes, all presented in the distinctive Bingo!
market development efforts to reinforce market standing flavour. During the year, the Business also launched an
across operating categories. Several campaigns ‘all things food & recipe’ content website - www.foodiesonly.in;
launched during the year received wide recognition with an endeavour to become a go-to website for
and won prestigious awards across leading platforms. recipes, tips & tricks, menu planners, masterclasses for
‘Aashirvaad Atta’ won Gold at Effie’s for its innovative home-chefs etc. The platform has generated excellent
‘Atta – Rap’ campaign in the Food, Snacks & Desserts consumer traction and has been one of the largest and
category, and Bronze at E4M in the Regional Campaign fastest platforms in terms of garnering consumer traffic.
In line with your Company’s commitment to fostering nutrition,
health and wellness, the Business has launched a range of nutrition dense products
under the ‘Right Shift’ brand to address the nutritional needs of consumers
aged over 40. The portfolio has been curated using natural and
proprietary ingredients developed at LSTC.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 57

[PAGE 76]
Report of the Board of Directors
Over the years, your Company has made significant strategic cost management initiatives in areas such
investments in setting up state-of-the-art Integrated as supply chain optimisation, smart procurement and
Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities productivity improvement through automation, leveraging
(ICMLs) proximal to large demand centres. These facilities new-age technologies such as Industry 4.0, Artificial
are at the heart of your Company’s strategy to create Intelligence/Machine Learning, advanced visual analytics
structural advantage by enhancing product freshness, and smart utilities. These measures are instrumental in
elevating market agility, minimising the cost of servicing countering significant input cost volatility witnessed during
proximal markets, enabling scalability, while also the year, as well as offsetting gestation costs of new
setting new benchmarks in safety and product quality. initiatives and strategic brand development investments
Your Company continues to leverage the benefits of the in emerging categories. Going forward, these strategic
state-of-the-art Ancillary Manufacturing cum Logistics initiatives will aid the Business in further enhancing its
Facilities (AMLFs) at Pudukkottai, Kapurthala and Panchla. competitive positioning in the industry.
These automated facilities are co-located with the ICMLs
The food processing industry has immense potential
and provide several structural advantages including to boost agriculture by improving market linkages,
inventory optimisation, delayering operations and lowering resource efficiency and exports. The development of
cost of market servicing. the food processing sector is vital for addressing food
security, controlling inflation, improving nutrition, and
11 ICMLs are operational in locations proximal to large
preventing wastage, thereby enhancing farmer incomes.
demand centres, enabling delivery of fresher products,
Acknowledging the large economic multiplier impact of
reduction in distance to market and delayering of
the food processing industry, and growth opportunities in
operations. The capacity utilisation at these ICMLs
the Indian market, your Company has made substantial
continues to be ramped up while contributing to a
investments in this sector and remains focused on
progressive increase in workforce diversity and inclusion
establishing itself as the leading player in the branded
with each new investment. During the year, the Business
packaged foods industry.
also commenced operations at the new confectionery
manufacturing facility at Jammu. Your Company’s strong farm linkages, procurement
efficiencies, world-class brands and deep & wide
With its relentless focus on quality and manufacturing
multi-channel distribution network, with growing presence
excellence, your Company received over 100 prestigious
in new gen channels such as e-Commerce, Modern
external awards & accolades in the areas of Safety,
Trade, On-the-go and Institutional sales, continues to
Sustainability, Quality & Food Safety, Manufacturing
deliver competitive advantage through superior product
Excellence, Cost Competitiveness, Manufacturing &
availability, visibility and freshness. Recent investments
Supply Chain and HR from prestigious institutions such
in establishing a world-class distributed manufacturing
as the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Integrated
footprint have created a solid foundation to secure structural
Manufacturing Excellence Initiative (IMexI), etc. These
advantage over time. Cutting-edge R&D platforms of
accolades are testament to your Company’s unwavering
your Company’s LSTC are driving agile innovation and
commitment to providing products with the highest
faster turnaround times for introduction of differentiated &
levels of quality while reducing environmental impact of
first-to-market products catering to constantly evolving
the same.
consumer needs. Investments in leading-edge digital
To counter input cost volatility and support long-term technologies and platforms continue to be stepped up
profitability, your Company has implemented several across the value chain to drive competitive advantage.
11 state-of-the-art Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities (ICMLs) are
operational in locations proximal to large demand centres, enabling delivery of fresher products,
reduction in distance to market and delayering of operations. The capacity utilisation at these
ICMLs continues to be ramped up while contributing to a progressive increase
in workforce diversity and inclusion with each new investment.
58 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025