[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 385-387

[PAGE 385]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
6. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Parameter Please Specify Unit FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
NOx Tonnes 2,064 2,338
SOx Tonnes 2,287 2,385
Particulate matter (PM) Tonnes 553 559
Persistent organic pollutants (POP) NA NA NA
Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) NA NA NA
Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP)* Tonnes 7.8 8
*The data is for PSPD Bhadrachalam Unit’s Hydrogen Sulphide emissions (HS)
2
7. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity.
Parameter Please Specify Unit FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO, CH, kilo tonnes of CO
2 4 2 1,101 1,127
NO, HFCs, PFCs, SF, NF, if available) equivalent
2 6 3
Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO, CH, kilo tonnes of CO
2 4 2 153 170
NO, HFCs, PFCs, SF, NF, if available) equivalent
2 6 3
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions intensity per rupee of tonnes of CO
2
turnover (Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/Revenue equivalent/ 17 19
from operations) Crore INR
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity per rupee of tonnes
turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) (Total of CO
2 35 39
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions/Revenue from operations equivalent/Million
adjusted for PPP) USD
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of tonnes of CO
2
physical output* equivalent/tonne of 1.06 1.10
production
Note: The above data point does not include information for Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed
separately as a part of the Exhibit-A.
ITC’s PSPD has large-scale Farm Forestry programmes promoting sustainable forest management with primary aim of
securing pulpwood requirement for Business continuity. ITC also has a large-scale Social Forestry programme, which,
in addition to sequestering carbon, also benefits the stakeholders by improving productivity of wasteland, and de-risking
poor rural households by diversifying farm portfolios through promotion of tree-based farming. During FY 2024-25, the
Farm and Social forestry programmes have together sequestered over 6.4 million tonnes of CO.
2
*Since ITC is a conglomerate with multiple businesses wherein physical output is reported in different units of measurement,
hence the data for Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission intensity in terms of physical output (tonnes of production) is reported only
for PSPD which accounts for more than 80% of ITC’s total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. For data of other Divisions, refer to
‘Climate Change’ section of ITC’s Sustainability Report 2025.
ITC’s GHG emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) data has been assured at the ‘Reasonable Level’ by an independent third-party
assurance provider.
8. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
As part of its Sustainability 2.0 ambitions, ITC is targeting a 50% reduction in Specific GHG Emissions (% Reduction in
Scope 1 & 2 emission per Unit of Production) by 2030. Accordingly, actions are being undertaken to reduce greenhouse
gas emissions by investing in energy efficiency and increasing share of renewable energy.
Energy efficiency:
All ITC Units focus on energy efficiency through process improvements and investment in new technologies. Over the
years, ITC has implemented measures like installation of Vapour Absorption Machines (VAM), Automation in tube cleaning
system of Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC), installation of variable frequency drive for pumps, blowers etc.
and installation of energy efficient equipment such as chillers, AHUs, motors, fans, pumps, and agitators. In FY 2024-25,
the investments in energy conservation equipment have resulted in energy savings of about 40 TJ, which is equivalent to
over 5,000 tonnes of GHG emissions in the year.
In line with ITC’s focus on accelerating digitalisation across Businesses, ITC’s PSPD is implementing several transformative
projects leveraging Industry 4.0 technologies across key business areas, to enhance productivity, reduce carbon footprint,
achieve strategic cost efficiencies and superior product performance.
Some of the major projects undertaken by ITC’s PSPD as part of its Digital Transformation Programme include process
debottlenecking and throughput improvement for productivity and Overall Equipment Effectiveness (OEE), process
capability improvement leading to reduction in defects and resource optimisation.
XXXVIII

[PAGE 386]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
Renewable energy:
ITC has invested in renewable energy projects, for both renewable electricity and renewable thermal requirements. In line
with ITC’s continuous thrust on expanding renewable footprint across both thermal and electrical energy, this achievement
was driven by the commissioning of state-of-the-art and future-ready High Pressure Recovery Boiler at the Bhadrachalam
mill of the Company’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business which replaced conventional soda recovery boilers
thereby reducing carbon footprint through lower coal consumption. Similar investments of biomass boilers were also
undertaken in Foods, Cigarette and Personal Care Businesses. In addition to this, ITC has installed and commissioned
174 MW2 of solar and wind power capacity across the country to meet its electrical energy requirements. Based on the
investments in renewable electricity and renewable thermal projects, ITC has been able to increase its renewable energy
share to 52% despite significant increase in its output.
9. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
Total waste generated is mentioned in rows (A) to (H)
Parameter (in kilo tonnes) FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Plastic waste (A)* - -
E-waste (B) 0.08 0.07
Bio-medical waste (C) 0.02 0.01
Construction and demolition waste (D)# 6.07 5.24
Battery waste (E) 0.23 0.11
Radioactive waste (F) 0 -**
Other Hazardous waste. Please specify, if any. (G) 22.55 21.86
Other Non-hazardous waste generated (H). Please specify, if any. (Break-up by 693.06 693.06
composition i.e. by materials relevant to the sector)
Total (A+B + C + D + E + F + G + H) 722.01 720.35
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover (in MT/Crore INR) 10 11
(Total waste generated/Revenue from operations)
Waste intensity per rupee of turnover adjusted for Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) 20 22
(in MT/million US$)
(Total waste generated/Revenue from operations adjusted for PPP)
Waste intensity in terms of physical output& 0.63 0.64
(in tonnes of waste generated/tonne of production)
Total waste recovered through recycling, re-using or other recovery operations
(i) Recycled 718 716
(ii) Re-used*** - -
(iii) Other recovery operations - -
Total 718 716
Total waste disposed by nature of disposal method
(i) Incineration 1.2 0.9
(ii) Landfilling 1.6 1.3
(iii) Other disposal operations - -
Total 2.8 2.2
* Plastic waste is reported under Non-hazardous waste
** Insignificant quantity of radioactive waste was generated.
*** Waste re-used is reported under waste recycled
&Since ITC is a conglomerate with multiple businesses wherein physical output is reported in different units of measurement, hence
the data for waste intensity in terms of physical output (tonnes of production) is reported only for PSPD which accounts for 85% of
ITC’s total waste generation. For data of other Divisions, refer to ‘Towards Circularity’ section of ITC’s Sustainability Report 2025.
ITC’s waste data has been assured at the ‘Reasonable Level’ by an independent third-party assurance provider.
Note: There is reclassification of ‘Composting’ waste under ‘Recycled’ waste and ‘Incineration with energy recovery’ under
‘Incineration’ for FY 2023-24 data, without any change in the total waste recovered and total waste disposed.
The above data point does not include information for Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed
separately as a part of the Exhibit-A.
2Excluding 51 MW of renewable energy assets transferred to ITC Hotels Limited post demerger.
Total commissioned capacity including that of ITC Hotels Limited is 225 MW.
XXXIX

[PAGE 387]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
In FY 2024-25, ITC continued to recycle over 99% of waste from its operations. In addition to this, the Company’s PSPD recycled
nearly 85,000 tonnes of externally sourced post-consumer waste paper, thereby creating a positive environmental footprint. The
Company also collected and sustainably managed more than 100% of its post-consumer plastic packaging waste.
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the
practices adopted to manage such waste
The Company has initiated measures across Units to ensure waste minimisation, segregation of waste at source and
recycling. During the year, the recycling level reached 99%. In addition, nearly 85,000 tonnes of externally sourced post-
consumer waste paper was used as raw material during the year.
ITC follows a proactive approach to manage hazardous chemicals by actively looking for alternatives, which not only
helps keep its operations safe, but also ensures safest products for customers. This approach is demonstrated in
pioneering practices implemented by ITC like Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) bleaching, and ozone bleaching technology
in India in its Paper Business, and switching from solvent-based inks to water-based ones in its Packaging and
Printing Business.
Note: For more details, refer to ‘Chemical Safety Management’ section of ITC Sustainability Report 2025
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where
environmental approvals / clearances are required.
S.no. Location Of Type Of Whether The Conditions
Operations/Offices Operations Of Environmental
Approval / Clearance Are
Being Complied With?
(Y/N) If No, The Reasons
Thereof And Corrective
Action Taken, If Any
1. Bhadrachalam Paperboards Yes
Manufacturing
The Plant is located at a distance of 3.47 Km from the boundary of Kinnerasani Wildlife Sanctuary Eco-Sensitive Zone
and ~8Km from the core zone of the Kinnerasani Wildlife Sanctuary.
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in
the current financial year.
Name And EIA Date Whether Results Relevant
Brief Details Notification Conducted By Communicated Web link
Of Project No. Independent In Public
External Agency Domain
(Yes / No)
Nil
13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act
and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
ITC’s existing operations/offices comply with applicable environmental regulations of the Country, and operate as per
CTO conditions from the Central and State Pollution Control Boards.
Leadership Indicators
1. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres).
ITC has developed the water risk assessment methodology for identifying water stressed areas based on WRI Aqueduct’s
Baseline Water Stress and Central Ground Water Board’s (India) groundwater block classification. Site level assessment
for water stress sites is done periodically using the above assessment framework and sites for interventions are
prioritised on the basis of stakeholder consultation and business needs. ITC’s water stewardship goals are available in
XL