[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 258-260

[PAGE 258]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Internally generated assets for which the cost is clearly with finite lives and to confirm that business circumstances
identifiable are capitalised at cost. Research expenditure is continue to support an indefinite useful life assessment for
recognised as an expense when it is incurred. Development assets so classified. Based on such review, the useful life
costs are capitalised only after the technical and commercial may change or the useful life assessment may change from
feasibility of the asset for sale or use has been established. indefinite to finite. The impact of such changes is accounted
Thereafter, all directly attributable expenditure incurred to for as a change in accounting estimate.
prepare the asset for its intended use are recognised as the
Investment Property
cost of such assets. Internally generated brands, websites
and customer lists are not recognised as intangible assets. Properties that are held for long-term rental yields
and / or for capital appreciation are classified as investment
The carrying value of intangible assets includes deemed
properties. Investment properties are stated at cost of
cost which represents the carrying value of intangible
acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation
assets recognised as at 1st April, 2015 measured as per
and impairment, if any. Depreciation is recognised using
the previous GAAP.
the straight-line method so as to amortize the cost of
After initial recognition, an intangible asset is carried at its
investment properties over their useful lives as specified
cost less accumulated amortization and / or accumulated
in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. Freehold land
impairment losses.
and properties under construction are not depreciated. The
The useful life of an intangible asset is considered finite
estimates useful lives of investment properties are same as
where the rights to such assets are limited to a specified
those disclosed as PP&E.
period of time by contract or law (e.g. patents, licences,
Transfers to, or from, investment properties are made at
trademarks, franchise and servicing rights) or the likelihood
the carrying amount when and only when there is a change
of technical, technological obsolescence (e.g. computer
in use.
software, design, prototypes) or commercial obsolescence
(e.g. lesser known brands are those to which adequate An item of investment property is derecognised upon
marketing support may not be provided). If, there are no disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected
such limitations, the useful life is taken to be indefinite. to arise from the continued use of asset. Any gain or loss
arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of investment
Intangible assets that have finite lives are amortized over
property is determined as the difference between the sales
their estimated useful lives by the straight-line method
proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is
unless it is practical to reliably determine the pattern of
benefits arising from the asset. An intangible asset with recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
an indefinite useful life is not amortized. However, it is Income received from investment property is recognised
annually tested for impairment. Amortization expenses and in the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis
impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses are over the term of the lease.
included in the ‘Depreciation and amortization expense’ in
Impairment of Assets
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent, the carrying
The estimated useful lives of intangible assets of the Group
amount of assets or CGU exceeds their recoverable
with finite lives are as follows:
amount.
Trademarks / Know How, 10 Years (unless shorter
Recoverable amount is higher of an asset’s fair value less
Business and Commercial useful life is required based
costs of disposal and its value in use. Value in use is the
Rights on contractual or legal
present value of estimated future cash flows expected to
terms)
arise from the continuing use of an asset or CGU and from
Computer Software 3-5 Years its disposal at the end of its useful life.
Customer Relationships / 5 Years Impairment losses recognised in prior years are reversed
Contracts when there is an indication that the impairment losses
recognised no longer exist or have decreased. Such
Business Alliances / 7 Years
reversals are recognised as an increase in carrying
Partnerships
amounts of assets to the extent that it does not exceed the
Software Tools 6 Years carrying amounts that would have been determined (net of
The useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually to amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss been
determine if a reset of such useful life is required for assets recognised in previous years.
240 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 259]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Inventories unless the derivative is designated and effective as a
Inventories are stated at lower of cost and net realisable hedging instrument, in which case the resulting gain / loss
is recognised as per the hedge accounting principles
value. The cost is calculated on weighted average method.
stated below.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal course
of business in bringing such inventories to their present The Group complies with the principles of hedge accounting
location and condition and includes, where applicable, where derivative contracts and / or non-derivative financial
appropriate overheads based on normal level of activity. assets / liabilities that are permitted under applicable
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less accounting standards are designated as hedging
estimated costs for completion and sale. instruments. At the inception of the hedge relationship, the
Group documents the relationship between the hedging
Obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories are
instrument and the hedged item, along with the risk
identified from time to time and, where necessary, a
management objectives and its strategy for undertaking
provision is made for such inventories.
hedge transaction, which can be a fair value hedge or a
Foreign Currency Transactions cash flow hedge.
The presentation currency of the Group is Indian Rupee. (i) Fair value hedges
Transactions in foreign currency are accounted for at
Changes in fair value of the designated portion of
the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date.
hedging instruments that qualify as fair value hedges
Gains / losses arising on settlement, as also on translation
are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
of monetary items are recognised in the Statement of
immediately, together with any changes in the fair value
Profit and Loss.
of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the
Exchange differences arising on monetary items that, in hedged risk. Such fair value changes are recognised in
substance, form part of the Group’s net investment in a the line item relating to the hedged item in the Statement
foreign operation (having a functional currency other than of Profit and Loss.
Indian Rupee) are recognised in other comprehensive
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging
income and accumulated in Foreign Currency Translation instrument is derecognised, expires or is sold,
Reserve. terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies
For the preparation of the consolidated financial statements: for hedge accounting. The fair value adjustment to the
carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the
(a) assets and liabilities of foreign operations, together
hedged risk is included in the Statement of Profit and
with goodwill and fair value adjustments assumed on
Loss from that date.
acquisition thereof, are translated to Indian Rupees at
exchange rates prevailing at the reporting period end; (ii) Cash flow hedges
(b) income and expense items are translated at the The effective portion of changes in the fair value of
average exchange rates prevailing during the period; hedging instrument that are designated and qualify
when exchange rates fluctuate significantly the rates as cash flow hedges is recognised in the other
prevailing on the transaction date are used instead. comprehensive income and accumulated as ‘Cash
Flow Hedge Reserve’. The gains / losses relating to the
Differences arising on such translation are recognised
ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in
Statement of Profit and Loss.
Foreign Currency Translation Reserve and attributed to
non-controlling interests proportionately. Amounts previously recognised and accumulated in
other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit
On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the exchange
or loss when the hedged item affects the Statement
differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation
of Profit and Loss. However, when the hedged item
attributable to the owners of the Group is reclassified to the
results in the recognition of a non-financial asset, such
Statement of Profit and Loss. In relation to a partial disposal,
gains / losses are transferred from equity (but not as
the proportionate exchange differences accumulated in
reclassification adjustment) and included in the initial
equity is reclassified to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
measurement cost of the non-financial asset.
Derivatives and Hedge Accounting
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are instrument is derecognised, expires or is sold,
subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies
of each reporting period. The resulting gains / losses are for hedge accounting. Any gains / losses recognised in
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 241

[PAGE 260]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
at that time remain in equity and is reclassified when the value, with unrealised gains and losses arising from
underlying transaction is ultimately recognised. When changes in the fair value being recognised in other
an underlying transaction is no longer expected to occur, comprehensive income.
the gains / losses accumulated in equity are recognised
(c) fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), where the
immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
assets are managed in accordance with an approved
Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures investment strategy that triggers purchase and sale
decisions based on the fair value of such assets.
Investment in associates and joint ventures are accounted
Such assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
for using the ‘equity method’ less accumulated impairment,
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in
if any.
the fair value, including interest income and dividend
Financial instruments, Financial assets, Financial income, if any, are recognised in the Statement of
liabilities and Equity instruments Profit and Loss in the period in which they arise.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when Trade receivables, Advances, Security deposits, Cash
the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of and cash equivalents etc. are classified for measurement
the relevant instrument and are initially measured at fair at amortised cost while investments may fall under any of
value except for trade receivables that do not contain a the aforesaid classes. However, in respect of particular
significant financing component, which are measured at investments in equity instruments that would otherwise
transaction price.
be measured at fair value through profit or loss, an
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the irrevocable election at initial recognition may be made to
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities present subsequent changes in fair value through other
(other than financial assets and financial liabilities measured comprehensive income.
at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted
Impairment: The Group assesses at each reporting date
from the fair value on initial recognition of financial assets or
whether a financial asset (or a group of financial assets)
financial liabilities. Purchase or sale of financial assets that
such as Investments, Trade receivables, Advances and
require delivery of assets within a time frame established by
Security deposits held at amortised cost and financial
regulation or convention in the market place (regular way
assets that are measured at fair value through other
trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date when
comprehensive income are tested for impairment based
the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
on evidence or information that is available without undue
Financial Assets cost or effort. Expected credit losses are assessed and loss
allowances recognised if the credit quality of the financial
Recognition: Financial assets include Investments, Trade
asset has deteriorated significantly since initial recognition.
receivables, Advances, Security deposits, Cash and cash
equivalents. Such assets are initially recognised at fair Reclassification: When and only when the business
value or transaction price, as applicable, when the Group model is changed, the Group shall reclassify all affected
becomes party to contractual obligations. The transaction financial assets prospectively from the reclassification date
price includes transaction costs unless the asset is being as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value
fair valued through the Statement of Profit and Loss. through other comprehensive income or fair value through
Classification: Management determines the classification profit or loss without restating the previously recognised
of an asset at initial recognition depending on the purpose gains, losses or interest and in terms of the reclassification
for which the assets were acquired. The subsequent principles laid down in the Ind AS relating to Financial
measurement of financial assets depends on such Instruments.
classification. Derecognition: Financial assets are derecognised when
Financial assets are classified as those measured at: the right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired,
or has been transferred, and the Group has transferred
(a) amortised cost, where the financial assets are held
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
solely for collection of cash flows arising from payments
Concomitantly, if the asset is one that is measured at:
of principal and / or interest.
(a) amortised cost, the gain or loss is recognised in the
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income
Statement of Profit and Loss;
(FVTOCI), where the financial assets are held not only
for collection of cash flows arising from payments of (b) fair value through other comprehensive income, the
principal and interest but also from the sale of such cumulative fair value adjustments previously taken to
assets. Such assets are subsequently measured at fair reserves are reclassified to the Statement of Profit and
242 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025