[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 139-141

[PAGE 139]
Report of the Board of Directors
impact areas spanning Consumer Experience, Business The resilience, agility and adaptive capacity demonstrated
Model Transformation, Smart Operations and Employee by your Company is a testament to the talent, determination
Experience. and untiring efforts of its pool of dedicated professionals,
associates and partners. Your Company’s diverse talent
Sustainability continues to be a critical focus area. Your
pool of professional entrepreneurs, ‘proneurs’, have the
Company is actively pursuing its bold Sustainability 2.0
unique opportunity to nurture categories, products and
agenda comprising multi-dimensional interventions in
brands from ideation to execution. This talent pool is
decarbonisation, building green infrastructure, scaling
being harnessed not only to create winning products and
up carbon sequestration, promoting climate-smart and
services for today, but also to seize larger opportunities
regenerative agriculture, restoring biodiversity through
as they emerge from the expanding horizons of your
nature-based solutions, enhancing water stewardship,
Company’s Businesses.
creating an effective circular economy and sustainable
packaging solutions, building climate resilience & adaptive Your Company’s Board and employees are inspired
capacity of value chains and developing inclusive value by the Vision of sustaining your Company’s position as
chains that can support 10 million livelihoods by 2030. one of India’s most admired and valuable companies,
creating enduring value for all stakeholders, including
Disruptive business models and value propositions
the shareholders and the Indian society. The vision of
anchored at the intersection of future frontiers of
enlarging your Company’s contribution to the Indian
Digitalisation and Sustainability form an integral part
economy is driven by its ‘Nation First: Sab Saath Badhein’
of your Company’s strategic roadmap going forward.
credo anchored on the core values of Trusteeship,
NextGen business models such as ITCMAARS in the
Transparency, Empowerment, Accountability and Ethical
agri-ecosystem, tech-enabled cloud kitchens in the food
Citizenship, which are the cornerstones of your Company’s
service space, sustainable paperboards and packaging
Corporate Governance philosophy.
solutions customised for end-use with focus on single
use plastic substitutes, are being progressed to actualise Inspired by this Vision, driven by Values and powered
these opportunities. Value-accretive acquisitions, joint by internal Vitality, your Directors and employees look
venture and collaborations continue to be proactively forward to the future with confidence and stand committed
pursued towards accelerating growth and value creation. to creating an even brighter future for all stakeholders.
On behalf of the Board
S. PURI Chairman & Managing Director
(DIN : 00280529)
Kolkata S. DUTTA Director & Chief Financial Officer
22nd May, 2025 (DIN : 01804345)
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 121

[PAGE 140]
Report of the Board of Directors
Annexure to the
For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY
1. CSR Policy - Brief outline and Overview
a. Brief outline of the CSR Policy:
It is ITC’s Policy to direct its CSR Programmes, inter alia, towards achieving one or more of the following – poverty
alleviation; promoting education and skill development; promoting healthcare including preventive healthcare;
providing sanitation and drinking water; ensuring environmental sustainability; enabling climate resilience; undertaking
rural development projects; creating livelihoods for people, especially those from disadvantaged sections of society;
protecting national heritage, art and culture; preserving and promoting music and sports; and providing relief and
assistance to victims of disasters and calamities.
In pursuit of the above, ITC has identified the following focus areas for its CSR Programmes based on comprehensive
need assessment surveys of its stakeholders:
(i) Create sustainable livelihoods and alleviate poverty through water stewardship and management of other
natural resources, sustainable agriculture and climate smart practices, on-farm livelihoods like afforestation,
off-farm livelihoods like livestock development, nano / micro-enterprises and women empowerment;
(ii) Build capabilities for tomorrow through interventions in education, skilling and healthy habitations through
sanitation, school WASH (Water, Sanitation & Hygiene) and waste management;
(iii) Promote healthcare, including preventive healthcare, and improve critical nutritional & health status of at-risk
population through interventions to strengthen mother & child health, nutrition, and affordable access to basic
healthcare services;
(iv) Protect national heritage, art & culture, and preserve & promote music and sports; and
(v) Provide relief and assistance to victims of disasters and calamities.
The CSR Policy of the Company may be accessed on its corporate website at https://www.itcportal.com/about-
itc/policies/corporate-social-responsibility-policy.aspx
b. Role of the CSR and Sustainability Committee:
The role of the CSR and Sustainability Committee is inter alia, to review, monitor and provide strategic direction to
the Company’s CSR and sustainability practices towards fulfilling its “triple bottom line” objectives. The Committee
seeks to guide the Company in crafting unique models to support creation of sustainable livelihoods together
with environmental re-generation. Formulation and monitoring of the CSR Policy, the Sustainability Policies and
the annual CSR Action Plan, including making recommendations to the Board as necessary, form part of the role of
the Committee.
c. CSR Programmes / Projects:
The two most important stakeholders for ITC’s CSR programmes / projects are:
Rural communities, primarily in the Company’s Agri Business areas.
Communities residing in close proximity to the Company’s production units.
The Company’s stakeholder profile is varied, calling for an integrated approach to development comprising several
layers of interventions which are summarised below, in line with Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013:
i. Promoting Preventive Healthcare, Sanitation & Poverty Alleviation (Schedule VII – i):
Health and Nutrition: Focus on preventive aspects through emphasis on Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition
(MCHN) through awareness and counselling by leveraging institutions like Anganwadis, Accredited Social
Health Activist (ASHA) workers and network of women Village Health Champions (VHCs). Also, strengthen
healthcare related services by supplementing primary & secondary infrastructure, upgrading Primary Health
Centres (PHC), and providing access to healthcare through mobile services & other interventions.
Waste Management and Circular Economy: Create a clean and healthy environment through awareness
& behaviour change for inculcating individual & community responsibility, facilitate source segregation
& recycling of dry and wet waste including plastics, management of liquid waste and enable sustainable
livelihoods and well-being of rag pickers & waste collectors.
122 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 141]
Sanitation: Promote a hygienic environment through prevention of open defecation and reduce incidence of
waterborne diseases. The focus of the intervention is on enhancing awareness and impacting behaviour
change on Water, Sanitation & Hygiene (WASH). Also, facilitate health impacting social and civic infrastructure
initiatives like improved sanitation and hygiene in the neighbourhood of the Company’s catchments.
Poverty Alleviation: Support the needy and poor through interventions that enable income diversification &
generation and also provide access to basic needs like clothing, food, etc., as needed.
ii. Promoting Education, Vocational Skills and Livelihood Enhancement (Schedule VII – ii):
Education: Provide children with access to education including Early Child Care Education with focus on
enrolment, learning retention, foundational skills and improved pedagogy. Also, work with government to
enhance capacities of institutions like Anganwadis.
Skills: Build and upgrade skills of youth with the emerging needs of the job market across sectors as also
entrepreneurial opportunities.
On-farm and Off-farm livelihoods: Enhance incomes of farmers and their families by widening income
generation opportunities through social and agro-forestry, fruit plantations and livestock development covering
both large and small ruminants, including poultry and fisheries. Also, facilitate capability building through
comprehensive package of extension services.
iii. Economic Empowerment of Women (Schedule VII – iii):
Provide a range of gainful employment and individual & group entrepreneurial opportunities to women by
empowerment and capacity building programmes, strengthening digital and financial literacy, and also providing
access to loans, grants, insurance & social security.
iv. Ensuring Environmental Sustainability (Schedule VII – iv):
Water Stewardship: Promote local management of water resources by facilitating community-based
participation in planning & executing watershed projects and soil & moisture conservation, river-basin level
interventions, and also identifying & enabling extensive use of water efficient practices in agriculture & urban
catchments and use of treated water.
Biodiversity: Strengthen eco-system services provided by nature including provisioning and regulatory
services focussed on restoring commons and mangroves.
CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development: Enable other businesses / organisations in India
to create enduring value on a sustainable basis by embedding the imperatives of sustainable development in
their strategies & processes.
v. Protection of National Heritage, Art & Culture (Schedule VII – v):
Revive and restore vanishing musical sub-genres by enlisting the goodwill of some of the finest musicians
through institutions like the ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), which was established in 1977 as an
embodiment of the Company’s sustained commitment to a priceless national heritage.
vi. Training to promote rural sports, nationally recognised sports, paralympic sports and Olympic sports
(Schedule VII – vii):
Promote sports for the holistic development of children by working closely with schools.
vii. Research in science, technology, engineering and medicine aimed at promoting Sustainable Development Goals
(Schedule VII – ix-b):
Leverage the technical expertise of premier institutions through partnerships and support innovation and R&D
activities in the areas of science, technology, engineering, environment, agriculture and health aimed at promoting
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
viii. Rural Development (Schedule VII – x):
Sustainable and Climate Smart Agriculture: Introduce advanced knowledge & technologies through package
of practices, increase awareness of farmers on optimum use of natural resources in order to increase farm
incomes, minimise cost of cultivation, reduce emissions and make agriculture resilient to increasing climate
challenges.
Knowledge Empowerment: Enable farmers and farmer collectives to make informed choices by providing
relevant and real-time information on local weather reports, customised knowledge & best practices on
farming and farm management, commodity prices, market linkages and risk management.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 123