[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 61-63

[PAGE 61]
Report of the Board of Directors
studies done by reputed ICAR - Agricultural Technology Your Company sustained its ‘AA’ rating by MSCI-ESG for
Application Research Institute, Kanpur, the CSA practices the seventh successive year - the highest amongst global
promoted in Rice and Wheat crops together have tobacco companies. Based on its ESG score as assessed
demonstrated reduction of costs up to 21%, improvement by S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA),
in yields up to 8% and consequently, increase in incomes your Company has also been included in the Dow Jones
up to 23% as compared to conventional practices. Sustainability Emerging Markets Index for the fifth year in
a row – a reflection of being a sustainability leader in the
In Kapurthala District, Punjab, your Company under its
industry and a recognition of its continued commitment to
flagship programme of ‘ITC Mission Sunehra Kal’ has,
people and planet.
over the last seven years, implemented solutions that
have effectively substituted the burning of paddy stubble Your Company is a pioneer in the green building
movement, with 17 buildings having received Platinum
by farmers. During the year, the programme covered
certification by USGBC (US Green Building Council)/IGBC
nearly 2.84 lakh acres with appx. 96% of the area
(Indian Green Building Council). To continuously reduce
(2.73 lakh acres) witnessing total stoppage of stubble
your Company’s energy footprint, green features continue
burning, thereby avoiding appx. 2.14 lakh tonnes of
to be integrated in all new and old constructions including
carbon release into the atmosphere.
manufacturing units, warehouses and office complexes.
Although India accounts for appx. 18% of the
In addition, your Company is spearheading the
world population, its share of natural resources is
implementation of Alliance for Water Stewardship
disproportionately low with only 2% of global land mass,
(AWS) Standard which is a credible, globally recognised
4% of freshwater resources and 2% of forest resources.
framework for ensuring sustainable water management
It is more critical than ever before to redouble efforts, both
within the wider water catchment context. The Kovai unit
at the national and corporate level, to fashion strategies
of your Company is the first site in India and the first paper
that foster sustainable, equitable and inclusive growth.
mill in the world to achieve the highest Platinum rating
It is your Company’s belief that businesses can bring
under the ‘Alliance for Water Stewardship Standards’.
about transformational change by pursuing innovative During the year, two of your Company’s units received the
business models that synergise the creation of sustainable AWS Platinum level certification. Till date, nine units of
livelihoods and the preservation of natural capital while your Company have achieved Platinum level certification
enhancing shareholder value. This ‘Triple Bottom Line’ under the AWS Standard. Your Company is in the process
approach to creating larger ‘stakeholder value’, as opposed of implementing the AWS Standard at other units in high
to merely focusing on uni-dimensional ‘shareholder value’ water stress areas and will progressively obtain AWS
creation, is the driving force that defines your Company’s certification for these sites.
sustainability vision and its growth path into the future.
Your Company continues to pursue a low carbon growth
Your Company is a global exemplar in ‘Triple Bottom Line’ strategy through extensive decarbonisation programmes
performance. The focus on creating unique business across its value chains whilst also developing adaptation
models that generate substantial livelihoods across the plans across its sites. Your Company is the only
value chains has led to your Company’s Businesses enterprise in the world of comparable dimensions to
supporting nearly nine million sustainable livelihoods, have achieved and sustained the three key global
many of whom belong to the weaker sections of society. indices of environmental sustainability of being
The focus on creating unique business models that generate substantial livelihoods
across the value chains has led to your Company’s Businesses supporting
nearly nine million sustainable livelihoods, many of whom
belong to the weaker sections of society.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 43

[PAGE 62]
Report of the Board of Directors
‘water positive’ (for 23 years), ‘carbon positive’ (for 20 years), demonstrated execution agility in leveraging
and ‘solid waste recycling positive’ (for 18 years). With its opportunities in rice exports in the second half of the
bold Sustainability 2.0 agenda, your Company is setting year when restrictions were eased. Strong customer
the bar even higher and remains committed to making relationships and focus on new business development
a meaningful contribution across all the three sectors aided strong growth in leaf tobacco exports. Superior
of the economy – Agri, Manufacturing and Services. grade/crop mix and strategic cost management
Further details on this subject are available in the initiatives enabled expansion in margins, despite
Sustainability 2.0 section of this Report. steep escalation in green leaf tobacco costs.
– The Paperboards, Paper & Packaging Segment
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
continued to witness a challenging operating
Your Company delivered a resilient performance during environment, with low-priced Chinese and
the year amidst a challenging macroeconomic and Indonesian supplies in global markets including India,
operating environment. soft domestic demand conditions, leading to subdued
– The FMCG-Others Segment delivered a resilient realisations. Segment margins were impacted by the
performance amidst weak demand conditions and unprecedented surge in wood costs. The Business
heightened competitive intensity. Further, the impact continued to sharpen focus on portfolio augmentation,
of sharp escalation in key input costs, viz. edible oil, export customer/market development and structural
maida, potato, cocoa, packaging inputs especially cost management to mitigate near term challenges,
in the second half of the year, exerted pressure on while enhancing resilience for the future. The Packaging
margins, which was partially offset through focused and Printing Business continues to be acknowledged
cost management interventions, judicious pricing as a ‘first choice packaging partner’ by several reputed
actions and premiumisation. Competitive marketing FMCG companies in the country for providing superior
and trade investments were sustained during the year and cost-effective packaging solutions. The Business
despite heightened inflationary pressures towards continues to aggressively pursue new business
supporting growth and market standing. development across various segments.
– In the FMCG-Cigarettes Segment, strategic Continuing Operations: In FY 2024-25, Gross
portfolio/market interventions continued to be made, Revenue and EBITDA stood at ` 73464.55 crores and
with focus on competitive belts and to counter illicit trade, ` 24024.83 crores respectively. Profit Before Exceptional
to drive volume-led growth and reinforce market items and Tax at ` 26000.86 crores, grew by 1.4%
standing. Differentiated and premium offerings continue over previous year. Profit After Tax grew by 0.9% to
to perform well. Severe cost escalation in leaf tobacco ` 20091.85 crores (previous year ` 19910.23 crores).
was partially mitigated through mix enrichment. Earnings Per Share for the year stood at ` 16.07
(previous year ` 15.98).
– The Agri Business Segment delivered robust
performance during the year. The value-added Discontinued Operations: Pursuant to the Scheme of
agri portfolio recorded strong growth driven by scale up Arrangement (‘the Scheme’) amongst your Company
of exports of spices and coffee. While operations and ITC Hotels Limited (‘ITCHL’) and their respective
remained constrained due to continuation of trading shareholders and creditors for demerger of the
restrictions on certain agri-commodities, the Business Hotels Business of your Company into ITCHL,
Your Company sustained its ‘AA’ rating by MSCI-ESG for the seventh successive year.
It has also been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging Markets Index for the
fifth year in a row. Till date, nine units of your Company have achieved Platinum level
certification under the Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) Standard which is a credible,
globally recognised framework for ensuring sustainable water management.
44 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 63]
Report of the Board of Directors
which became effective from 1st January 2025, VALUE-ADDED AND CONTRIBUTION TO EXCHEQUER
the Hotels Business (along with all assets and liabilities
Over the last five years, the Value-Added by your
thereof, excluding ITC Grand Central, Mumbai) and the
Company, i.e., the value created by the economic activities
investments held by your Company in Hospitality entities 3,
of your Company and its employees, aggregated over
have been transferred to ITCHL on a going concern basis.
` 315000 crores, of which over ` 211000 crores accrued
Accordingly, the operations of the Hotels Business of
your Company (excluding ITC Grand Central, Mumbai) to the Exchequer.
have been classified as ‘Discontinued Operations’ for the
Including the share of dividends paid and retained
year ended 31st March, 2025.
earnings attributable to government owned institutions,
– The Hotels Business posted its highest ever Revenue your Company’s contribution to the Central and State
and operating profits on the back of strong growth
Governments represented appx. 75% of its Value-Added
in RevPar, for the 9 months ended 31st December
during the year.
2024. The Profit Before Exceptional items and Tax
for the 9 months ended 31st December 2024 stood at Your Company has, over the years, consistently ranked
` 572.52 crores (` 445.04 crores for the same period amongst the Top 3 Indian corporates in the private sector
in previous year; ` 691.22 crores for FY 2023-24). in terms of Contribution to Exchequer.
Profit After Tax from Discontinued operations for
FY 2024-25 stood at ` 15103.76 crores FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNINGS
(previous year ` 511.74 crores), including an
Your Company continues to view foreign exchange
exceptional gain on demerger of ` 15163.06 crores
earnings as a priority. All Businesses in your Company’s
(FY 2023-24 - ` 7.57 crores). Refer Note 29(x) to the
portfolio are mandated to engage with overseas markets
financial statements.
with a view to testing and demonstrating international
Overall Profit After Tax for FY 2024-25 (including Profit
competitiveness and seeking profitable opportunities for
from Discontinued Operations) stood at ` 35195.61 crores
growth. Foreign exchange earnings of the ITC Group over
(previous year ` 20421.97 crores). Total Comprehensive
the last ten years aggregated nearly US$ 9.5 billion, of
Income for the year stood at ` 34266.23 crores (previous
which agri exports constituted appx. 60%. Earnings from
year ` 22703.03 crores).
agri exports, which effectively link small farmers with
The Directors of your Company are pleased to recommend
international markets, are an indicator of your Company’s
a Final Dividend of ` 7.85 per share for the financial
contribution to the rural economy.
year ended 31st March, 2025. Together with the Interim
Dividend of ` 6.50 per share paid on 7th March 2025, the During FY 2024-25, your Company and its subsidiaries
total Dividend for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025 earned ` 10445 crores in foreign exchange. The direct
amounts to ` 14.35 per share (previous year Dividend foreign exchange earned by your Company amounted
of ` 13.75 per share). Total cash outflow on account of
to ` 7708 crores, mainly on account of exports of
Dividend (including Interim Dividend of ` 8133.11 crores
agri-commodities. Your Company’s expenditure in
paid in March 2025) will be ` 17956.69 crores.
foreign currency amounted to ` 3426 crores, comprising
3 Fortune Park Hotels Limited, Bay Islands Hotels Limited, Landbase India purchase of raw materials, spares and other expenses
Limited, WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited, Srinivasa Resorts Limited, of ` 3280 crores and import of capital goods of
International Travel House Limited, Gujarat Hotels Limited and Maharaja
Heritage Resorts Limited ` 147 crores.
Over the last five years, the Value-Added by your Company, i.e., the value created by the
economic activities of your Company and its employees, aggregated over ` 315000 crores,
of which over ` 211000 crores accrued to the Exchequer. Your Company has,
over the years, consistently ranked amongst the Top 3 Indian corporates
in the private sector in terms of Contribution to Exchequer.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 45