[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 109-111

[PAGE 109]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company continues to strengthen its performance perspectives, fosters creative solutions and is integral
management system and its culture of accountability to serving customers better while creating value for
through widespread adoption of the system of all stakeholders. Your Company’s policy on Diversity,
Management-by-Objectives. Performance planning Equity and Inclusion articulates and institutionalises
through clearly defined goals, outcome-based assessment, this conviction through concerted actions spanning
and alignment of rewards for achievement of results three vectors, i.e., Representation, Inclusion & Enablement
have all contributed to a robust culture of ownership and and Commitment & Assurance. Your Company is
accountability. ‘Career Conversations’ and succession committed to enhancing gender diversity and participation
planning processes have contributed to helping employees of the differently abled in the workforce.
realise their potential, craft their careers while recognising
Measures to enhance diversity include ensuring
their strengths and areas of development and ensuring a
sufficient representation of women in selection pools
sound workforce planning system.
and deployment of the differently abled across suitable
In the spirit of continuous improvement, your Company opportunities in the value chain. Through progressive
maintains a practice of periodically assessing employee policies offering flexible work arrangements, extended
engagement through an entity-wide survey. The recent child-care leave, travel support for infants and care-givers,
survey results of 2024 continue to indicate an improving secure transport, paternity leave, same gender partner
trend, on a strong base, with scores increasing in the medical benefits, infrastructure support coupled with
range of 10 to 16 percentage points on key dimensions. various sensitisation programmes, Employee Resource
96% of employees reported a deep sense of pride and Groups, development interventions tailored for women
association with your Company, 94% reported a belief talent, and the commitment and sponsorship of leaders;
in your Company’s overarching goals & leadership and your Company provides an enabling environment to
94% are optimistic of the future. These engagement further its Diversity, Equity and Inclusion goals. To ensure
levels reflect in your Company’s superior standing
a safe and progressive work environment, Internal
on employee turnover. During the year, a range of
Committees have been institutionalised as per provisions
engagement programmes were sustained including
of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
initiatives such as leadership outreach through extensive
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013.
communication, recognition programmes acknowledging
The focused efforts across these dimensions have
exceptional contributions of employees and teams, career
resulted in a 72% increase in women managers in your
conversations and investments in employee wellbeing.
Company since FY 2021-22.
The year witnessed the Cigarettes Business receiving the
Your Company continued its practice of active leadership
Platinum Award for ‘Best Practices in Digitisation in HR’
outreach to employees. Periodic communication with
among Large Manufacturing Sector Companies at the
the ITC community through ‘StudioOne Townhalls’ led
8th CII National HR Competition 2024. The Personal
by the Chairman, provided employees avenues to hear
Care Business and Foods Business were conferred
from and engage with leaders about your Company’s
FICCI’s Women Empowerment Award 2024, under the
vision, strategy and milestones. This was supplemented
category - ‘Impactful Care Ecosystem for Employees’.
by a more personalised engagement through the
The Life Sciences and Technology Centre (LSTC) won
‘StudioOne Xchange’ initiative. The Chairman and other
the CII Award on ‘Excellence for Women in STEM 2024’.
members of the Corporate Management Committee
LSTC was the only organisation in the Life Sciences
interacted with managers across Businesses in small
Sector to be recognised in top 25 companies by CII in
groups, sharing your Company’s vision and strategies
this category.
while also inviting suggestions and feedback. Your
Your Company’s efforts to enhance Diversity, Equity and Company believes that alignment of all employees to
Inclusion are founded on the conviction that a diverse a shared vision and purpose is vital for winning in the
workforce contributes to rich discourse, promotes holistic marketplace. It also recognises the mutuality of interests
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 91

[PAGE 110]
Report of the Board of Directors
with key stakeholders and is committed to continue ensure that no complainant is victimised or harassed for
building harmonious employee relations. Your Company bringing such incidents to the attention of the Company,
remains dedicated to an Employee Relations climate and to keep the information disclosed during the
of partnership and mutuality while ensuring operations course of the investigation as confidential. The
are competitive, flexible and responsive. The Employee practice of the Whistleblower Policy is overseen by the
Relations philosophy of your Company, anchored in the Audit Committee and no employee was denied access to
tenets of Scientific Management, Industrial Democracy, the Committee during the year. The Whistleblower Policy
Human Relations and Employee well-being, has is available on the Company’s corporate website at
contributed towards building a robust platform which has https://www.itcportal.com/whistleblower-policy .
aided the conclusion of collective bargaining agreements
During the year, your Company received 24 complaints in
at several of its manufacturing units, ensuring smooth
terms of the Whistleblower Policy, of which investigation
commencement of operations at greenfield locations and
in respect of 15 complaints was completed; in most of the
the execution of productivity improvement practices.
cases, no evidence was found in support of the allegations
In its relentless pursuit of excellence and value creation, made. Appropriate action, where necessary, was taken.
your Company offers an abundance of opportunities for
employees to grow and thrive in an environment of trust, SUSTAINABILITY 2.0
empowerment and continuous learning. The access to
Your Company believes that when enterprises make
best-in-class resources, technology and infrastructure, the
societal value creation an integral part of their corporate
prospect of building businesses rooted in value chains in
strategy, powerful drivers of innovation emerge that make
India, the deployment of deep consumer insights to create
growth more enduring for all stakeholders. This paradigm
and shape Indian brands are the defining hallmarks of
is called ‘Responsible Competitiveness’ - an abiding
‘The ITC Way’. This unique blend of a high-performance
strategy that focuses on extreme competitiveness but in
culture coupled with care and respect for people remain
a manner that replenishes the environment and supports
vital to realising your Company’s vision of sustaining its
sustainable livelihoods.
position as one of India’s most valuable and admired
Your Company’s innovative business models synergise
corporations.
the building of economic, environmental and social capital,
WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY thus embedding sustainability at the core of its corporate
strategy. Today, this strategy has not only contributed
Your Company’s Whistleblower Policy, approved by
to building strong businesses of the future as well as a
the Board, encourages Directors and employees to
portfolio of winning world-class brands, but also in making
promptly bring to the Company’s attention, instances of
your Company a global exemplar in ‘Triple Bottom Line’
illegal or unethical conduct, actual or suspected incidents
performance. Your Company is the only enterprise in the
of fraud, actions that affect the financial integrity of
world of comparable dimensions to have achieved and
the Company, or actual or suspected instances of leak
sustained the three key global indices of environmental
of unpublished price sensitive information, that could
sustainability of being ‘water positive’ (for 23 years),
adversely impact the Company’s operations, business
‘carbon positive’ (for 20 years), and ‘solid waste recycling
performance and/or reputation. The Policy requires
positive’ (for 18 years).
the Company to investigate such incidents, when reported,
in an impartial manner and take appropriate action Your Company is actively working towards Sustainability 2.0,
to ensure that the requisite standards of professional an agenda which reimagines sustainability under the
and ethical conduct are always upheld. Anonymous pressing challenges of climate change and social inequity.
complaints are also entertained if the same is backed by Sustainability 2.0 calls for inclusive strategies that can
specific allegations & verifiable facts, and is accompanied support sustainable livelihoods, pursue newer ways
with supporting evidence. It is your Company’s Policy to to fight climate change, enable the transition to a net
92 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 111]
Report of the Board of Directors
zero economy, work towards ensuring water security Plastic Waste and Circular Economy
for all and create an effective circular economy for
– 100% of your Company’s Packaging to be Reusable,
post-consumer packaging waste. It also entails protecting
Recyclable or Compostable/Biodegradable by 2028.
and restoring biodiversity and ecosystem services through
adoption of nature-based solutions. Your Company – Sustain plastic neutrality (attained in FY 2021-22) by
enabling sustainable management of waste in excess
believes that agility in thought and action, meaningful
of the amount of packaging utilised.
public-private-people partnerships and Responsible
Competitiveness will act as core enablers of this new Sustainable Agriculture
agenda. Your Company has the potential to make a
– Promote climate smart agriculture approach in core
large-scale impact not only from an economic standpoint,
Agri Business catchments across four million acres
but also from the perspective of supporting livelihoods
by 2030.
and social enablement because of its presence across
Biodiversity Conservation
several critical sectors of the economy. With its bold
Sustainability 2.0 agenda, your Company is setting the – Revive & sustain ecosystem services and products
bar higher and remains committed to making meaningful provided by nature, through adoption of nature-based
contribution to the Nation’s future while retaining its status solutions and biodiversity conservation covering over
as a sustainability exemplar. The 2030 Sustainability 2.0 one million acres by 2030.
ambitions include:
Sustainable Livelihoods
Climate Change
– Supporting sustainable livelihoods for 10 million
– Enhancing the share of renewable energy usage to people by 2030.
50% of total energy consumption by 2030.
Your Company’s Businesses are actively working towards
– Meeting 100% of purchased grid electricity achieving your Company’s Sustainability 2.0 vision.
requirements from renewable sources by 2030. During FY 2024-25, your Company enhanced the share
of its renewable energy to nearly 52%. Commendable
– Reducing specific energy consumption by 30% and
progress has been made in line with 2030 targets relating
specific Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions by 50%
to specific energy, specific GHG emissions and specific
by 2030 as compared to the FY 2018-19 baseline.
water consumption across Businesses as well. In line
– Sustain and enhance carbon sequestration by with its commitment, your Company continued to remain
expanding forestry projects through your Company’s plastic neutral during FY 2024-25 by sustainably managing
Social and Farm Forestry programme and other such more plastic packaging waste than the amount of plastic
initiatives covering over 1.5 million acres by 2030. packaging utilised. During the year, your Company’s
large-scale programmes on Sustainable Agriculture were
Water Stewardship
augmented to cover 3.17 million acres. Through its deep
– Achieving 40% reduction in specific water consumption engagement in agriculture, manufacturing and services,
by 2030 as compared to the FY 2018-19 baseline. as well as its extensive distribution infrastructure and
large-scale programmes under ITC Mission Sunehra
– Creation of rainwater harvesting potential equivalent
Kal, your Company supports nearly nine million
to over five times the net water consumption by 2030.
sustainable livelihoods across its operations and
– Certification of all sites in high water stressed areas value chains. A detailed performance dashboard against
as per the international water stewardship standard 2030 commitments is included in your Company’s
by Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) by 2035 annual Sustainability Report, 2025 and will be available
and eight sites by 2024. in due course.
– Improve crop water-use efficiency in agri-value chains In addition to the 2030 targets, your Company is enhancing
through demand side management interventions and its long-term climate-related goals by committing to
enable savings of 2,000 million kl of water by 2030. achieve ‘Net Zero Operations’ by 2050 which will entail
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 93