[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 69-71

[PAGE 69]
omni-channel capability and excellence in supply chain, have grown at an impressive pace over the past
remains at the core of your Company’s strategy to rapidly several years.
scale-up the FMCG Businesses.
FMCG - Others
Across your Company’s FMCG Businesses, the power
of digital is being leveraged to drive superior consumer
Revenue (` Crores)
insights & innovation, deepen consumer engagement and
enhance brand loyalty. Strategic interventions continue to
be made towards delivering delightful brand experiences
seamlessly using an ‘Always On’ approach across
touchpoints through personalised journeys mapped to
individual needs, preferences and context.
Your Company continues to leverage deep consumer
insights and cutting-edge R&D capabilities to address
present and emergent consumer need spaces. Over
100 new products anchored on the vectors of Health &
Nutrition, Hygiene, Protection & Care, Convenience &
On-the-Go, Indulgence etc., were launched across target Your Company’s vibrant portfolio of over 25 world-class
markets during the year, leveraging the R&D platforms of Indian brands, largely built through an organic growth
your Company’s Life Sciences and Technology Centre strategy leveraging institutional synergies in a relatively
(LSTC) and agile product development teams across short period of time, represents an annual consumer
Businesses. spend of over ` 34000 crores and reach over 260 million
Cutting-edge digital technologies including Industry 4.0, households in India. These home-grown, purpose-led
Advanced Analytics, Big Data and industrial Internet of Indian brands, powered by agile innovation, support the
Things (IoT) continue to be deployed towards strengthening competitiveness of domestic value chains, especially in
your Company’s real time operations and execution the agri space, thereby ensuring creation and retention of
platform, enhancing productivity, driving efficiency and value within the country.
cost agility. These initiatives are anchored on the key
Your Company’s FMCG brands have achieved impressive
pillars of synchronised planning and forecasting, agile, market standing6 in a relatively short span of time in their
resilient & efficient supply chain, smart buying & value
respective categories viz. Aashirvaad is No. 1 in Branded Atta,
engineering, smart manufacturing and smart demand
Bingo! is No. 1 in the Bridges segment of Snack Foods,
capture & fulfilment. Strategic investments have been
Sunfeast is No. 1 in the Cream Biscuits segment,
stepped up to build platforms of insights by harmonising
Classmate is No. 1 in Notebooks, YiPPee! is No. 2 in
and integrating large and isolated datasets powered
Noodles and Mangaldeep is No. 2 in Incense Sticks.
by AI/ML technologies and ‘human-centred design’ &
Your Company remains focused on rapidly scaling up the
visualisation tools.
FMCG Businesses anchored on strong growth platforms
The FMCG Businesses comprising Branded Packaged
and a future-ready portfolio. It is pertinent to note that the
Foods, Personal Care Products, Education and Stationery
Products, Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) and Safety Matches
30YF 80YF 01YF 31YF 41YF 51YF 61YF 71YF 81YF 91YF 02YF 12YF 22YF 32YF 42YF 52YF
Report of the Board of Directors
21982
20967
19123
15994
14728
12505 12844
11329
10512
9731 9038
8122
7012
3642
2511
109
6 Source: Nielsen, Kantar Household Panel
Your Company’s vibrant portfolio of over 25 world-class Indian brands,
largely built through an organic growth strategy leveraging institutional synergies
in a relatively short period of time, represents an annual consumer spend of
over ` 34000 crores and reach over 260 million households in India.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 51

[PAGE 70]
Report of the Board of Directors
chosen categories, which are largely characterised by and newer routes to market, smart buying & value
low household penetration levels and/or low per capita engineering and smart manufacturing. Investments over
consumption, offer significant headroom for long-term the years in several state-of-the-art Integrated Consumer
growth. This is borne out by several reports which Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities (ICMLs) have
highlight that your Company’s total addressable market laid a strong foundation to drive structural advantages
expansion potential is amongst the highest in the Indian such as economies of scale and scope, ensuring product
FMCG space. In this context, it is noteworthy that a key freshness, enhancing agility and responsiveness of
element of your Company’s growth strategy is to foray the supply chain, reducing cost of servicing proximal
into value-added adjacencies and categories of the future markets through lower distance-to-market, etc. Capacity
by leveraging the 25+ powerful mother brands it has utilisation at the 11 operational ICMLs continues to be
established over the years. Recent examples of such brand ramped up along with focused smart manufacturing
extensions include Aashirvaad to Dairy, Ready-to-Eat, interventions leveraging automation and Industry 4.0
Vermicelli, Rava, Besan, Indian breads, Salt and Spices; technologies to drive operational efficiencies, yield and
Sunfeast to Dairy Beverages and Cakes; Bingo! energy management and further enhance safety and
to Namkeens; ITC Master Chef to Frozen Snacks and quality. With growing scale, supply chain operations are
Cooking pastes; Classmate to Writing instruments; being increasingly delayered through direct-to-market
Savlon to Sanitisers, Wipes and Disinfectant sprays shipments, thereby reducing freight costs and eliminating
etc. Simultaneously, the FMCG Businesses continue to multiple handling. Your Company is confident that these
make strategic investments in building categories of the strategic interventions which are already delivering
future and establishing your Company’s ‘right to win’ substantial benefits will realise their full potential over the
by progressively scaling up nascent categories where medium term and continue to create long-term value.
beachheads have been created. In line with the
Your Company continues to counter the impact of
ITC Next Strategy of building a future-ready portfolio,
inflationary headwinds through proactive measures across
accelerating growth and enhancing competitiveness,
all nodes of operations and deliver competitively superior
several value accretive acquisitions were announced
performance leveraging its institutional strengths and
during the year viz. M/s. Sresta Natural Bioproducts
harnessing advantages of scale, smart buying initiatives
(24 Mantra Organic Foods), Mother Sparsh Baby Care
and world-class talent in a consumer-centric, agile and
(Mother Sparsh) and Ample Foods (Prasuma & Meatigo).
innovative manner.
These interventions are expected to augment your
Company’s presence and market standing in high-growth Notwithstanding the short-term challenges, the
and future-facing businesses. structural drivers of long-term growth such as rising
disposable incomes and consumer awareness, low
The FMCG Businesses continue to expand their export
levels of penetration of consumer goods, favourable
footprint leveraging the equity of their world-class brands –
demographics, increasing urbanisation and growing
with a reach now spanning over 70 countries. Your Company
preference for trusted brands remain firmly in place. Your
is also exploring strategic opportunities in proximal
Company remains confident of rapidly scaling up its FMCG
markets as a potential vector of growth going forward.
Businesses on the back of a strong future-ready portfolio
The FMCG Businesses continue to create structural powered by purpose-led brands, world-class quality, deep
competitive advantages and enhance profitability by consumer insights, cutting-edge innovation and an agile,
leveraging world-class distributed manufacturing and resilient and efficient supply chain. Your Company’s
logistics infrastructure, multi-channel distribution network institutional strengths – strong backward linkages with the
In line with the ITC Next Strategy of building a future-ready portfolio, accelerating growth and
enhancing competitiveness, several value accretive acquisitions were announced during the year
viz. M/s. Sresta Natural Bioproducts (24 Mantra Organic Foods), Mother Sparsh Baby Care
(Mother Sparsh) and Ample Foods (Prasuma & Meatigo). These interventions are expected to augment
your Company’s presence and market standing in high-growth and future-facing businesses.
52 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 71]
Report of the Board of Directors
Agri Business, deep and wide multi-channel distribution each of your Company’s branded packaged food products
network, cuisine knowledge resident in ITC Hotels Limited is manufactured in HACCP/ISO-certified manufacturing
(a group entity), industry-leading packaging knowhow and locations ensuring compliance with all applicable laws and
access to robust R&D platforms nurtured by LSTC – will adherence to the highest quality norms.
continue to be leveraged to serve as unique sources of
– In the Staples Business, ‘Aashirvaad’ delivered robust
competitive advantage for the FMCG Businesses.
growth on an elevated base, consolidating its market
leadership position. The value-added Atta portfolio,
Branded Packaged Foods
consisting of Multigrain, Select and Sugar Release
The Branded Packaged Foods industry witnessed severe Control Atta posted healthy growth driven by superior
headwinds during the year due to subdued consumer value proposition. Millet products (‘Atta with Millets’,
demand and unprecedented inflationary pressure ‘Gluten Free Flour’, ‘Ragi Flour’), Organic portfolio
across several key inputs viz. edible oil, wheat, maida, (‘Organic Atta’ and ‘Organic Dals’), ‘Aashirvaad
potato, cocoa, packaging inputs etc. In this backdrop, Vermicelli’, ‘Aashirvaad Rava’ (Suji Rava, Bansi Rava,
your Company sustained its position as one of India’s Samba Rava) and ‘Ready to Cook Chapati’ continued
largest and fastest growing branded packaged foods to witness strong growth. ‘Aashirvaad Besan’,
businesses, leveraging a robust portfolio of brands, with the unique proposition of smooth & lump-free
a slew of first-to-market products, regionally curated batter, was extended to more markets and continues
offerings, supported by an efficient supply chain and to scale up rapidly. With the objective of catering to
distribution network. regional preferences, a differentiated range of Atta
was launched in Mumbai (‘Premium MP Sehori’,
The Branded Packaged Foods Businesses remain
‘MP Sehori’, ‘MP Lokwan’ and ‘Khapli’ variants).
focused on addressing emerging consumer preferences
The Vermicelli range was expanded with the
through innovations anchored on the vectors of health,
launch of ‘Roasted Short Vermicelli’ in Tamil Nadu.
nutrition, wellness, immunity, naturals, indulgence and
‘Aashirvaad Soya Chunks’, with the proposition of
convenience. Several innovative and first-to-market
‘Juicy and Tasty’ as the differentiator was launched
products were launched during the year, leveraging
and has seen positive consumer response. With
your Company’s institutional strengths including superior
superior product development, purposeful marketing
consumer insights, innovation capabilities of the
inputs, consumer activations and region-specific
Life Sciences and Technology Centre (LSTC) and cuisine
interventions supported by manufacturing excellence
expertise resident in ITC Hotels Limited, a group entity.
and sharply targeted media investments, especially
While fortifying core portfolio, the Businesses continued to
across digital platforms, your Company is confident
scale-up presence in value-added adjacencies leveraging
of further fortifying Aashirvaad’s position as a
powerful mother brands and invest in categories of
preferred ‘centre-of-plate’ choice amongst Indian
the future.
households, catering to all future-ready ‘staple’ needs
Relentless focus on delivering superior quality products of consumers.
to consumers continues to be a key source of sustainable
‘Aashirvaad Salt’ continued to post robust growth
competitive advantage for the Branded Packaged Foods
in focus markets during the year, supported by its
Businesses. In this context, the Businesses continue to
distinctive positioning of “Iodine Assured salt for a
leverage the agri-commodity sourcing expertise resident
Smarter India”.
in your Company’s Agri Business to procure high quality
raw materials, thereby ensuring the highest level of In the Spices category, your Company continued to
quality, consistency and safety in its products. In addition, deliver strong growth with its endeavour to provide
Your Company sustained its position as one of India’s largest and fastest growing
branded packaged foods businesses, leveraging a robust portfolio of brands,
a slew of first-to-market products, regionally curated offerings, supported by
an efficient supply chain and distribution network.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 53