[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 42-44

[PAGE 42]
Report on Corporate Governance
Attendance at Risk Management Committee Meetings SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
All subsidiaries of the Company are managed by their
Member No. of Meetings attended
respective Board of Directors in the best interest of
S. Puri 3
those companies and their shareholders. The annual
H. Bhargava 1 2 financial statements of the subsidiary companies are
S. Dutta 3 reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Company.
Performance review reports of the subsidiary companies
H. Malik 3
are placed before the Board of Directors of the Company
B. Sumant 3
on a half-yearly basis. The Minutes of Board Meetings of
S. Sivakumar 2
the subsidiary companies, including details of significant
A. Duggal 2 1 transactions & arrangements entered into by them, are
also placed before the Board of Directors of the Company.
1. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
2. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
The Company does not have any material
CORPORATE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE subsidiary. The Company’s Policy for determination
The primary role of the CMC is strategic management of a material subsidiary, as approved by the Board,
of the Company’s businesses within Board approved may be accessed on its corporate website at
direction / framework and realisation of Company goals. https://www.itcportal.com/material-subsidiary-policy .
The CMC, inter alia, formulates the Company’s Business
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR DIRECTORS
Plans and organisational policies, systems & processes,
reviews business performance against approved plans, ITC believes that a Board, which is well informed /
allocates resources, and operates under the strategic familiarised with the Company and its affairs, can
supervision of the Board.
contribute significantly to effectively discharge its role
of trusteeship in a manner that fulfils stakeholders’
Composition
aspirations and societal expectations. In pursuit of this,
The CMC presently comprises the Chairman of the
the Directors of the Company are updated on material
Company, all Executive Directors and three members of
changes / developments in the domestic / global corporate
senior management. The Chairman of the Company is the
and industry scenario including those pertaining to statutes /
Chairman of the Committee. The composition of the CMC
is determined by the Board on the recommendation legislations & economic environment, and on matters
of the Nomination & Compensation Committee. significantly affecting the Company to enable them to take
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the CMC. well informed and timely decisions. The Directors are also
kept abreast on all business related matters including
The names of the members of the CMC, including its
Chairman, are provided under the section ‘Board of risk assessment & minimisation procedures, CSR &
Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts. sustainability interventions, succession plans including
management development processes, and new initiatives
Meetings
proposed by the Company. Induction programme is
The CMC normally meets once a month. Minutes of
organised by the Company for the Non-Executive Directors
CMC Meetings are placed before the Board. Matters
joining the Board. Visits to Company facilities are also
requiring the Board’s attention / approval, as emanating
organised for the Directors from time to time.
from the CMC Meetings, are placed before the Board
Further details may be accessed on the Company’s
in the form of notes from / through the relevant
Executive Director, backed by comprehensive corporate website at https://www.itcportal.com/directors-
background information. familiarisation-programme .
24 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 43]
Report on Corporate Governance
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
Timely disclosure of consistent, comparable, relevant and reliable information on corporate financial performance is at the
core of good governance. Towards this end, the Company has taken the following initiatives:
Website
Communications with the investing community
The Company’s corporate website www.itcportal.com
provides comprehensive information on ITC’s portfolio of Detailed presentations to the investing community on the
businesses, CSR & sustainability initiatives, EHS performance, quarterly financial results are sent to the Stock Exchanges
shareholding pattern, key Company Policies and contact and also made available on the Company’s corporate website.
In addition, investor presentations on other major events
details of the employees responsible for assisting investors
such as acquisitions by the Company, demerger of
and handling investor grievances. An exclusive section on
Hotels Business etc. were also made available in the public
‘Investor Relations’ serves to inform and service Shareholders,
domain, through the websites of the Company and the
enabling them to access information at their convenience.
Stock Exchanges.
Annual Report
The Report and Accounts, including the Standalone and
Consolidated Financial Statements, the Report of the
Other disclosures / filings
Board of Directors and the Auditors’ Reports, is sent to the
Shareholders of the Company, and is also available on the A copy of the Chairman’s Speech delivered at the AGM is
Company’s corporate website. sent to the Shareholders and is also made available on the
Company’s corporate website. In addition, shareholding
The Report of the Board of Directors, forming part of the
pattern, material events and other important information
Report and Accounts, includes all aspects of Management
relating to the Company are submitted to the Stock Exchanges
Discussion and Analysis as required under the Listing Regulations.
and also made available on the Company’s website.
Financial Results
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results,
along with the Media Statement and presentation on the
Company’s financial performance, are sent to the Shareholders.
Media Releases
These documents along with FAQs on results are also
available on the Company’s corporate website. The ‘Media Centre’ section of the Company’s corporate
website includes all major media releases from the
Extracts of these results are published in ‘The Times of India’ /
Company and relevant media reports.
‘Business Standard’ & ‘Aajkaal’ from Kolkata, and on an all India
basis in major newspapers and also in ‘Luxemburger Wort’,
Luxembourg.
ITC CODE OF CONDUCT
The ITC Code of Conduct, as adopted by the Board, is
Declaration as required under the Listing Regulations
applicable to the Directors, senior management and
employees of the Company. The Code is derived from
three interlinked fundamental principles viz., good All Directors and senior management of the Company
corporate governance, good corporate citizenship have affirmed compliance with the ITC Code of Conduct
and exemplary personal conduct in relation to the for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
Company’s business and reputation. The Code covers
ITC’s commitment to CSR and sustainable development,
concern for occupational health, safety and environment, S. Puri
a gender friendly workplace, transparency and auditability, Chairman &
legal compliance, avoidance of conflict of interest, and the Kolkata, 22nd May, 2025. Managing Director
philosophy of leading by personal example. The Code is
available on the Company’s corporate website.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 25

[PAGE 44]
Report on Corporate Governance
WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY During the year, the Company was not required to
obtain credit rating for any debt instrument, fixed
Synopsis of the Whistleblower Policy of the Company
deposit programme or any other scheme involving
is provided in the ‘Report of the Board of Directors &
mobilisation of funds.
Management Discussion and Analysis’, forming
part of the Report and Accounts. The Whistleblower The Company has not raised any funds through
Policy, as approved by the Board, may be preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement.
accessed on the Company’s corporate website at
None of the Directors of the Company has been
https://www.itcportal.com/whistleblower-policy .
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or
continuing as a Director by the SEBI / Ministry of
POLICY ON RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Corporate Affairs / Statutory Authorities; Certificate
The Policy, as approved by the Board, may be
from the Company’s Secretarial Auditors confirming
accessed on the Company’s corporate website at
the same is annexed to this Report.
https://www.itcportal.com/rpt-policy .
During the year, the Company or its subsidiaries have
ITC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PREVENTION OF not provided any loans or advances (being in the
INSIDER TRADING - 2019 nature of loans) to firms / companies in which Directors
The ITC Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider of the Company are interested.
Trading - 2019, as approved by the Board, inter alia, prohibits Details with respect to Secretarial Auditors of the
trading in the securities of the Company by the Directors Company and confirmation by the Board regarding
and employees while in possession of unpublished price independence of the Independent Directors are
sensitive information in relation to the Company. provided in the ‘Report of the Board of Directors &
Management Discussion and Analysis’, forming part
OTHER DISCLOSURES / CONFIRMATIONS
of the Report and Accounts.
During the last three years, there was neither any
Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of
instance of non-compliance by the Company nor
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
penalty / stricture imposed on the Company by the
Redressal) Act, 2013 are provided in the ‘Business
Stock Exchanges / SEBI / Statutory Authorities with
Responsibility and Sustainability Report’, forming part
respect to any matter related to the capital markets.
of the Report and Accounts.
There are no inter-se relationships between the Directors
Information with respect to ‘Commodity Price Risk
and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.
or Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities’
During the year, the Company has not entered into
is provided in the ‘Report of the Board of Directors
any materially significant related party transaction
& Management Discussion and Analysis’ and in the
which may have potential conflict with the interest of
‘Notes to the Financial Statements’, forming part of the
the Company at large.
Report and Accounts.
The names of senior management of the Company
In view of the diversified business portfolio of the
under the Listing Regulations (i.e., CMC Members,
Company, its exposure in none of the individual
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary) are
commodities which are sourced either for use as
provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and
inputs in its businesses or for agri-commodity trading
Committees’ in the Report and Accounts. There were
is material in the context of its overall operations,
no changes in the senior management during the year.
and also in terms of the ‘Policy for determination of
The senior management of the Company did not enter materiality of events and information for disclosure
into any material financial and commercial transaction to the Stock Exchanges’, as approved by the Board.
during the year, in which they had personal interest Accordingly, the disclosure requirements prescribed
that may have had potential conflict with the interest of under the SEBI Master Circular dated 11th November,
the Company at large. 2024 are not applicable for the Company.
26 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025