[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 131-133

[PAGE 131]
Report of the Board of Directors
PROCEEDINGS INITIATED BY THE ENFORCEMENT including engagement with market participants, ensured
DIRECTORATE that the investment portfolio was not exposed to undue
credit risks.
In the proceedings initiated by the Enforcement Directorate
in 1997, the appropriate authority after hearing arguments In the currency market, the Indian Rupee (INR) witnessed
on behalf of your Company has passed several orders significant volatility during the year. While the INR
in favour of your Company and dropped some of the remained relatively stable during the first half of the
show cause notices issued by the Directorate. In respect year supported by strong domestic fundamentals and
of some of the remaining notices, your Company filed healthy capital inflows, the second half saw considerable
writ petitions challenging their validity. The Honourable two-way movements. The weakness in the INR was
Calcutta High Court heard some of these writ petitions primarily attributed to the strengthening of the USD
to completion, and the proceedings in respect of these relative to all major currencies, driven by concerns over
notices were quashed. The remaining writ petitions and potential tariff hikes by the US Government. Additionally,
notices are pending adjudication/hearing. higher capital outflows during this period weighed on the
INR. However, the INR witnessed a rebound towards the
Meanwhile, some of the prosecutions launched by the
end of the year on the back of a narrowing trade deficit
Enforcement Directorate have been quashed by the
and a weakening USD amidst heightened global trade
Honourable Calcutta High Court; while the remaining have
uncertainties. Robust foreign exchange reserves and
been challenged before the High Court and are pending.
strategic interventions in the currency markets by the RBI
also provided support to the INR.
TREASURY OPERATIONS
As in earlier years, commensurate with the size of the
Your Company’s treasury operations continued to focus
temporary surplus liquidity under management, treasury
on deployment of surplus liquidity and management of
operations continue to be supported by appropriate
foreign exchange exposures within a well-defined risk
internal control systems, and independent check of
management framework.
100% of transactions by your Company’s Internal
During the year market interest rates declined sharply Audit Department.
across both short and long term maturities. The Reserve
Your Company adopted proactive risk management
Bank of India (RBI) adopted an accommodative monetary
approach and actively managed foreign currency
policy stance, cutting the repo rate by a cumulative
exposures through appropriate hedging strategies and
50 basis points since April 2024 on the back of easing
market instruments to protect business margins.
inflation and to boost economic activity. In addition,
the RBI deployed several liquidity management tools,
DEPOSITS
which pushed the banking system liquidity from a deficit
Your Company’s erstwhile Public Deposit Scheme closed
position between November 2024 and February 2025 to
in the year 2000. As at 31st March, 2025, there were
a surplus by the end of the financial year. The decline in
no deposits due for repayment except in respect of two
interest rates for longer maturities was further aided by
deposit holders aggregating ` 20000 which have been
robust demand from Foreign Portfolio Investors following
withheld on the basis of directives received from the
the inclusion of Indian Government Securities in the
government agencies.
JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index and an
improving fiscal position. There was no failure to make repayments of Fixed
Deposits on maturity and the interest due thereon in terms
Investment decisions relating to deployment of surplus
of the conditions of your Company’s erstwhile Schemes.
liquidity continued to be guided by the tenets of Safety,
Liquidity and Return. Treasury operations focused on Your Company has not accepted any deposit from the
proactive rebalancing of portfolio duration and mix, in public/members under Section 73 of the Companies Act,
line with the evolving interest rate environment. Further, 2013 read with the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits)
continuous review and monitoring of credit worthiness, Rules, 2014 during the year.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 113

[PAGE 132]
Report of the Board of Directors
DIRECTORS on 14th September, 2024. Mr. Rahul Jain, representing
SUUTI, and Mr. Mukesh Gupta, representing LIC, stepped
Changes in Directors
down from the Board with effect from 31st May, 2024 and
During the year, Ms. Pushpa Subrahmanyam and
27th October, 2024, respectively. Your Directors place
Mr. Chandra Kishore Mishra were appointed, with your
on record their appreciation for the contribution made by
approval, as Independent Directors of the Company for
Messrs. Banerjee, Duggal, Jain, Gupta and Ms. Shankar
a period of five years with effect from 2nd April, 2024 and
during their respective tenure with your Company.
14th September, 2024, respectively. In the opinion of
the Board, Ms. Subrahmanyam and Mr. Mishra possess Retirement by Rotation
the required integrity, expertise and experience for
In accordance with the provisions of Section 152 of
appointment as Independent Directors of your Company.
the Companies Act, 2013 (‘the Act’) read with Articles 94
Mr. Atul Singh representing Tobacco Manufacturers (India) and 95 of the Articles of Association of your Company,
Limited (‘TMI’), a subsidiary of British America Tobacco Messrs. Hemant Malik and Atul Singh will retire by
p.l.c., Dr. Alok Pande representing the Specified rotation at the ensuing AGM and being eligible, offer
Undertaking of the Unit Trust of India (‘SUUTI’) and themselves for re-election. Your Board has recommended
Mr. Siddhartha Mohanty representing the Life Insurance their re-election.
Corporation of India (‘LIC’) were appointed, with your
approval, as Non-Executive Directors of your Company Number of Board Meetings
for a period of three years with effect from 2nd April, 2024,
Six meetings of the Board were held during the year
27th July, 2024 and 1st January, 2025, respectively.
ended 31st March, 2025.
Mr. Sunil Panray, who is representing TMI, was
re-appointed, with your approval, as a Non-Executive Attributes, Qualifications & Independence of Directors
Director for a period of five years with effect from and their Appointment
20th December, 2024. Further, Messrs. Sumant The Corporate Governance Policy of your Company
Bhargavan and Supratim Dutta were re-appointed, with
requires that the Non-Executive Directors be drawn
your approval, as Wholetime Directors of the Company
from amongst eminent professionals, with experience
for a period of two years from 12th July, 2025 and
in business / finance / law / public administration and
three years from 22nd July, 2025, respectively.
enterprises. The Nomination & Compensation Committee
Mr. Shyamal Mukherjee will complete his present has laid down the criteria for determining qualifications,
term as an Independent Director of your Company on positive attributes and independence of Directors
10th August, 2026. The Board of Directors of your Company (including Independent Directors). In case of appointment
(‘the Board’), on the recommendation of the Nomination of Independent Directors, the Nomination & Compensation
& Compensation Committee, has recommended for Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and
the approval of the Members, the re-appointment of experience on the Board, and also the role and capabilities
Mr. Mukherjee as an Independent Director of your of an Independent Director of the Company.
Company for a period of five years with effect from
Further, in terms of the Policy on Board Diversity, the
11th August, 2026. Appropriate resolution seeking
Board is required to have balance of skills, competencies,
your approval to the above is appearing in the Notice
experience and diversity of perspectives appropriate to
convening the 114th Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’)
the Company. Diversity for this purpose is considered
of your Company.
from a number of aspects including, but not limited to,
Mr. Shilabhadra Banerjee completed his term as an educational & cultural background, nature of professional,
Independent Director of your Company with effect from administrative & industry experience, skills, knowledge
close of work on 29th July, 2024, and Mr. Arun Duggal and gender representation. The skills, expertise and
and Ms. Meera Shankar completed their respective terms competencies of the Directors as identified by the
as Independent Directors with effect from close of work Board, along with those available in the present mix of
114 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 133]
Report of the Board of Directors
the Directors of the Company, are provided in the and also specified that such evaluation will be done
‘Report on Corporate Governance’ forming part of the by the Board.
Report and Accounts.
In keeping with ITC’s belief that it is the collective
In terms of the applicable regulatory requirements effectiveness of the Board that impacts Company’s
read with the Articles of Association of your Company, performance, the primary evaluation platform is that of
the strength of the Board shall not be fewer than six nor collective performance of the Board as a whole. Board
more than eighteen. Directors are appointed / re-appointed performance is assessed, inter alia, against the roles and
with the approval of the Members for a period of three to
responsibilities of the Board as provided under the Act,
five years or a shorter duration, in accordance with
the Listing Regulations and the Company’s Governance
retirement guidelines and as may be determined by
Policy. The parameters for Board performance evaluation
the Board from time to time. All Directors, other than
have been derived from the Board’s core role of
Independent Directors, are liable to retire by rotation, unless
trusteeship to protect and enhance shareholder value as
otherwise approved by the Members. One-third of the
well as to fulfil expectations of other stakeholders through
Directors who are liable to retire by rotation, retire every
strategic supervision of the Company; such parameters
year and are eligible for re-election.
include securing alignment of the Company’s goals with
The Independent Directors of your Company have the nation’s economic, ecological and social priorities,
confirmed that (a) they meet the criteria of independence ensuring that the Company has a clearly defined strategic
prescribed under Section 149 of the Act and Regulation direction for realisation of its vision, and supporting the
16 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Company’s management to meet challenges arising
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
from the operating & policy environment in the country.
Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’), (b) they are
Evaluation of functioning of Board Committees is based
independent of the management of the Company,
on discussions amongst Committee members and shared
and (c) they are not aware of any circumstance or
by the respective Committee Chairmen with the Board.
situation which could impair or impact their ability to
Individual Directors are evaluated in the context of the
discharge duties with an objective independent judgement
role played by each Director as a member of the Board
and without any external influence. In the opinion of the
at its meetings, in assisting the Board in realising its role
Board, the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions
of strategic supervision of the functioning of the Company
prescribed under the Act and the Listing Regulations, and
in pursuit of its purpose and goals. The peer group ratings
are independent of the management of the Company.
of the individual Directors are collated by the Chairman
of the Nomination & Compensation Committee and made
Remuneration Policy
available to the Chairman of the Company.
Details of the Company’s Policy on remuneration of
Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and other employees While the Board evaluated its performance against
are provided in the ‘Report on Corporate Governance’ the parameters laid down by the Nomination &
forming part of the Report and Accounts. Compensation Committee, the evaluation of individual
Directors was carried out against the laid down
Evaluation of Board, Board Committees and individual parameters in order to ensure objectivity. The parameters
Directors for performance evaluation of individual Directors, inter
Your Company has a structured process for performance alia, include ability to provide thought leadership across
evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and individual the role spectrum and contribution to Board cohesion,
Directors. The Nomination & Compensation Committee, governance & organisational processes. Reports on
as reported in earlier years, has formulated the Policy the functioning and performance of Board Committees
on Board evaluation, evaluation of Board Committees’ during the year were placed before the Board.
functioning and individual Director evaluation, The Independent Directors Committee of the Board
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 115