[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 387-389

[PAGE 387]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
In FY 2024-25, ITC continued to recycle over 99% of waste from its operations. In addition to this, the Company’s PSPD recycled
nearly 85,000 tonnes of externally sourced post-consumer waste paper, thereby creating a positive environmental footprint. The
Company also collected and sustainably managed more than 100% of its post-consumer plastic packaging waste.
10. Briefly describe the waste management practices adopted in your establishments. Describe the strategy
adopted by your company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the
practices adopted to manage such waste
The Company has initiated measures across Units to ensure waste minimisation, segregation of waste at source and
recycling. During the year, the recycling level reached 99%. In addition, nearly 85,000 tonnes of externally sourced post-
consumer waste paper was used as raw material during the year.
ITC follows a proactive approach to manage hazardous chemicals by actively looking for alternatives, which not only
helps keep its operations safe, but also ensures safest products for customers. This approach is demonstrated in
pioneering practices implemented by ITC like Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) bleaching, and ozone bleaching technology
in India in its Paper Business, and switching from solvent-based inks to water-based ones in its Packaging and
Printing Business.
Note: For more details, refer to ‘Chemical Safety Management’ section of ITC Sustainability Report 2025
11. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife
sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where
environmental approvals / clearances are required.
S.no. Location Of Type Of Whether The Conditions
Operations/Offices Operations Of Environmental
Approval / Clearance Are
Being Complied With?
(Y/N) If No, The Reasons
Thereof And Corrective
Action Taken, If Any
1. Bhadrachalam Paperboards Yes
Manufacturing
The Plant is located at a distance of 3.47 Km from the boundary of Kinnerasani Wildlife Sanctuary Eco-Sensitive Zone
and ~8Km from the core zone of the Kinnerasani Wildlife Sanctuary.
12. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in
the current financial year.
Name And EIA Date Whether Results Relevant
Brief Details Notification Conducted By Communicated Web link
Of Project No. Independent In Public
External Agency Domain
(Yes / No)
Nil
13. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act
and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances.
ITC’s existing operations/offices comply with applicable environmental regulations of the Country, and operate as per
CTO conditions from the Central and State Pollution Control Boards.
Leadership Indicators
1. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kilolitres).
ITC has developed the water risk assessment methodology for identifying water stressed areas based on WRI Aqueduct’s
Baseline Water Stress and Central Ground Water Board’s (India) groundwater block classification. Site level assessment
for water stress sites is done periodically using the above assessment framework and sites for interventions are
prioritised on the basis of stakeholder consultation and business needs. ITC’s water stewardship goals are available in
XL

[PAGE 388]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
‘Sustainability 2.0 Ambitions’ section of ITC’s Sustainability Report 2025.
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information:
(i) Name of the area: Kolar, Kapurthala, Saharanpur, Ranjangaon, Kothagudem, Bengaluru and Kovai
(ii) Nature of operations: Manufacture of FMCG products and Paperboards & Specialty Papers
(iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format
Parameter FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Water withdrawal by source (in million kilolitres)
(i) Surface water 26.3 28.1
(ii) Groundwater 0.1 0.1
(iii) Third party water 0.4 0.5
(iv) Seawater/desalinated water 0 0
(v) Others 0 0
Total volume of water withdrawal (in million kilolitres) 26.8 28.7
Total volume of water consumption (in million kilolitres)
7.8 8.4
(Total water withdrawal – Total water discharged)
Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed/turnover)
105 125
(in kilolitre/crore INR)
Water intensity (optional) – the relevant metric may be selected by the entity - -
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in million kilolitres)
(i) Into Surface water 9.9 10.5
No treatment 0 0
With treatment – please specify level of treatment Secondary Secondary
(ii) Into Groundwater 0 0
No treatment NA NA
With treatment – please specify level of treatment NA NA
(iii) Into Seawater 0 0
No treatment NA NA
With treatment – please specify level of treatment NA NA
(iv) Sent to third-parties 9.1 9.8
No treatment 0 0
With treatment – please specify level of treatment Tertiary Tertiary
Total water discharged (in million kilolitres) 19.0 20.3
ITC’s water withdrawal, discharge and consumption data has been assured at the ‘Reasonable Level’ by an independent
third-party assurance provider.
2. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity
Parameter Unit FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Total Scope 3 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into Kilo tonnes of CO 1062* 244
2
CO , CH , N O, HFCs, PFCs, SF , NF , if available) equivalent
2 4 2 6 3
Total Scope 3 emissions per rupee of turnover Tonnes of CO 14 3.63
2
equivalent/crore INR
The scope of coverage for Scope 3 emission is mentioned in ‘Climate Change’ section of ITC’s Sustainability
Report 2025.
* Scope 3 emissions for FY2024-25 have increased due to expansion in the reporting boundary such as inclusion of key supply
chain partners, embedded emissions of raw materials and fuels/energy, end of life of plastics etc. For details refer to the
‘Climate Change’ section of ITC’s Sustainability Report 2025
XLI

[PAGE 389]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
3. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas What mitigation or adaptation measures have been
reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, taken by the entity in this regard?
provide details of significant direct & indirect impact
ITC has a Board approved Policy on ‘Sustainable
of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with
Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing’ and a ‘Code of
prevention and remediation activities.
Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers’. The Code
ITC’s Bhadrachalam Unit has necessary systems and is shared and accepted by supply chain partners and
processes to manage and mitigate any, environmental service providers. ITC has a robust process of evaluating
impact related to air, water, waste, noise, soil and its Suppliers and Service Providers before engaging
dust pollution. For sustainable sourcing of wood, the with them, proactively making them aware of its
social and farm forestry programme was started for expectations/ requirements, and seeking commitment
promoting sustainable forests management practices for compliance through contractual agreements.
Additionally, ITC facilitates its value chain partners in
in the value chain. Apart from sequestering carbon, this
handling any adverse impacts. For example, managing
programme provides significant environmental benefits
hazardous chemicals is not only important within ITC
such as improving productivity of wasteland and has
factories, but also in the supply chain. Within the supply
greened more than 1.3 million acres till date. For
chain, farmers working with hazardous pesticides is an
conserving biodiversity, the business in collaboration
area of special attention. ITC’s approach is to eliminate
with Telangana Forest Department has created a
or reduce the use of hazardous pesticides. Intensive
“Sarapaka Biodiversity Conservation and Development”
training is conducted on Integrated Pest Management
plot in ~440 hectares of Kistasagar Reserve Forest for
(IPM), which helps adopt a holistic approach in reducing
regreening and regenerating the natural ecosystem
pesticide usage as well as substituting such pesticides
including flora and fauna.
with nature-based solutions. The training programmes
ITC’s Bhadrachalam Unit is the first pulp & paper also cover the safe handling of pesticides used and the
plant in the country to be rated ’GreenCo Platinum+’ responsible management of waste generated.
by CII. The Unit has also achieved platinum-level
certification as per Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) 7. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of
Standard. These recognitions highlight the facility’s business done with such partners) that were assessed
commitment to environmental conservation and its for environmental impacts.
strong performance on various green parameters,
Key value chain partners like third-party manufacturers
including energy efficiency, renewable energy, water
are encouraged to adopt management practices detailed
and waste management.
under International Standards such as ISO 9001, ISO
14001, OHSAS 18001 and ITC’s Environment, Health
4. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives and Safety (EHS) Guidelines. Contract manufacturing
or used innovative technology or solutions to improve agreements also include aspects of EHS. Systems are
resource efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions in place for monitoring and reporting on key Third-Party
/ effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide Manufacturers’ (TPMs) environmental performance,
details of the same as well as outcome of such including energy, water and waste management. ITC’s
initiatives. leading Agri value chains are assessed for certification
standards such as Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC)®,
The Company has undertaken a number of initiatives,
Rainforest Alliance, Sustainable Tobacco Programme
and also deployed innovative technologies across
(STP 2.0), G.A.P., etc. These standards, among others,
its operations for improving resource efficiency and
also include environmental criteria. Additionally,
minimising environmental impact. For details, refer to
ITC conducts third-party assessment of its Critical
‘Disclosure on Conservation of Energy and Technology
Tier-1* suppliers on an ongoing basis, and this
Absorption’ forming part of the Report of the Board of
assessment covers key aspects on environmental
Directors & Management Discussion and Analysis in
compliance and management practices. As on 31st
ITC Report and Accounts 2025, and ‘Climate Change’,
March, 2025, ~70% of ITC’s critical tier 1 suppliers have
‘Water Security’, ‘Towards Circularity’, ‘Chemical
been assessed.
Safety Management’, and ‘Air Emissions Management’
sections of ITC’s Sustainability Report 2025. *All ITC Businesses have identified Critical Tier-1 suppliers
based on buy value, ESG risk exposure and importance to
business continuity, among others. ITC’s Sustainable Supply
5. Does the entity have a business continuity and Chain Programme is focussed on working closely with the set
disaster management plan? of identified Critical suppliers.
Yes, all Business Divisions within ITC have Business
Continuity Plans (BCPs) that are duly approved by the 8. How many Green Credits have been generated
Management Committee of their respective Businesses. or procured:
The BCPs have been drawn up to encompass all
operational aspects and undergo testing at scheduled a. By the listed entity
intervals.
b. By the top ten (in terms of Nil
value of purchases and sales,
6. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the
respectively) value chain partners
environment, arising from the value chain of the entity.
XLII