[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 149-151

[PAGE 149]
We further report that during the financial year under review, no event has occurred having a major bearing on the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above
referred Laws, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines, Standards, etc., except as follows:
I. T he Scheme of Arrangement amongst ITC Limited and ITC Hotels Limited (‘ITCHL’) and their respective shareholders and creditors under
Sections 230 to 232 read with the other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 for demerger of the Company’s Hotels Business into ITCHL
(‘Scheme’) was approved by the Shareholders of the Company at their meeting held on 6th June, 2024, and by the National Company Law Tribunal,
Kolkata Bench, on 4th October, 2024. The Scheme became effective from 1st January, 2025.
C onsequent to the Scheme becoming effective, ITCHL ceased to be a subsidiary and became an associate of the Company. Further, Landbase India Limited,
Srinivasa Resorts Limited, Bay Islands Hotels Limited, Fortune Park Hotels Limited and WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited ceased to be
subsidiary companies, Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited ceased to be a joint venture company, and International Travel House Limited and
Gujarat Hotels Limited ceased to be associates of the Company.
II. I ssue and allotment of 2,93,98,310 Ordinary Shares of ` 1/- each, fully paid-up, upon exercise of Stock Options under the Employee Stock Option Schemes
of the Company, from time to time.
III. A cquisition of 1,413 Compulsorily Convertible Preference Shares of ` 10/- each of Sproutlife Foods Private Limited (‘Sproutlife’), an associate company, on
25th September, 2024, consequent to which the Company’s shareholding in Sproutlife aggregated 47.50% of its share capital on a fully diluted basis.
IV. A cquisition of entire share capital (comprising 4,20,60,166 Equity Shares of ` 10/- each) of its step-down subsidiary, Greenacre Holdings Limited (‘GHL’) from
Russell Credit Limited (‘RCL’), a wholly owned subsidiary (‘WOS’) of the Company on 29th November, 2024 at book value; consequently, GHL became a
direct WOS of the Company with effect from the said date.
V. Acquisition of 2.44% of the share capital (comprising 1,52,32,129 Equity Shares of ` 2/- each) of EIH Limited (‘EIH’) and 0.53% of the share capital (comprising
34,60,829 Equity Shares of ` 2/- each) of HLV Limited (‘HLV’) from RCL on 18th December, 2024 at book value, consequent to which the Company’s
shareholding in EIH and HLV aggregated 16.13% and 8.11% of their paid-up share capital, respectively.
VI. E xecution of Definitive Agreements on 6th February, 2025 to acquire 100% of the share capital of Ample Foods Private Limited (along with its
wholly owned subsidiary, Chao Chao Foods Private Limited) and Meat and Spice Private Limited.
VII. E xecution of Business Transfer Agreement with Aditya Birla Real Estate Limited (‘ABREL’) for acquisition of ABREL’s pulp and paper business operating
under the name of ‘Century Pulp and Paper’, along with the assets, liabilities, contracts, employees etc., as a going concern on a slump sale basis.
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure - A and forms an integral part of this Report.
For S. N. ANANTHASUBRAMANIAN & Co.
Company Secretaries
ICSI Unique Code: P1991MH040400
Peer Review Cert. No.: 5218/2023
S. N. Ananthasubramanian
Founding Partner
8th May, 2025 FCS: 4206 | COP No.: 1774
Thane ICSI UDIN: F004206G000298665
Annexure - A
To,
The Members,
ITC Limited
CIN: L16005WB1910PLC001985
Virginia House, 37 J. L. Nehru Road
Kolkata 700 071
Our Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year from 1st April 2024 to 31st March 2025 of even date is to be read along with this letter.
Management’s Responsibility
1. I t is the responsibility of the Management of the Company to maintain secretarial records, devise proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of
all applicable laws and regulations, and to ensure that the systems are adequate and operate effectively.
Auditor’s Responsibility
2. O ur responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records, standards and procedures followed by the Company with respect to
secretarial compliances.
3. W e have conducted the Audit as per the applicable Auditing Standards issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
4. We believe that audit evidence and information obtained from the Company’s management is adequate and appropriate for us to provide a basis for our opinion.
5. W herever required, we have obtained reasonable assurance as to whether the statements prepared, documents or records in relation to Secretarial Audit,
maintained by the Company, are free from misstatement.
6. Wherever required, we have obtained the Management’s representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events, etc.
Disclaimer
7. T he Secretarial Audit Report is neither an assurance as to future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the Management has
conducted the affairs of the Company.
8. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
For S. N. ANANTHASUBRAMANIAN & Co.
Company Secretaries
ICSI Unique Code: P1991MH040400
Peer Review Cert. No.: 5218/2023
S. N. Ananthasubramanian
Founding Partner
8th May, 2025 FCS: 4206 | COP No.: 1774
Thane ICSI UDIN: F004206G000298665
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 131

[PAGE 150]
Report of the Board of Directors
Annexure to the
For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2025
Form No. AOC-2
[Pursuant to Section 134(3)(h) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule 8(2) of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014]
Form for disclosure of particulars of contracts / arrangements entered into by the Company with related parties
referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 188 of the Companies Act, 2013 including certain arm’s length
transactions under third proviso thereto
1. Details of contracts or arrangements or transactions not at arm’s length basis
(a) Name(s) of the related party Russell Credit Limited (RCL), a wholly owned subsidiary
and nature of relationship
(b) Nature of contracts / Transfer of Equity Shares of Inter-se transfer of Equity Inter-se transfer of Equity
arrangements / Greenacre Holdings Limited Shares of EIH Limited (EIH), a Shares of HLV Limited (HLV),
transactions (GHL), a wholly owned listed entity a listed entity
subsidiary of RCL
(c) Duration of the contracts / Not Applicable
arrangements / transactions
(d) Salient terms of the Purchase of 4,20,60,166 Equity Purchase of 1,52,32,129 Equity Purchase of 34,60,829 Equity
contracts or arrangements Shares of GHL of ` 10/- each Shares of EIH of ` 2/- each from Shares of HLV of ` 2/- each
or transactions including from RCL at book value of RCL at book value of from RCL at book value of
the value, if any ` 42.10 crores. ` 111.22 crores. ` 10.93 crores.
(e) Justification for entering The aforesaid shares have The aforesaid shares have been acquired from RCL in order to
into such contracts been acquired from RCL as consolidate shareholding of EIH and HLV under the Company.
or arrangements or part of restructuring within the Since the transactions are between the Holding Company and
transactions group. Since the transaction is its wholly owned subsidiary, there is no potential conflict with the
between the Holding Company interests of the Company and its shareholders arising from the
and its wholly owned subsidiary, said transactions.
there is no potential conflict with
the interests of the Company
and its shareholders arising
from the said transaction.
(f) Date of approval by the 24th October, 2024
Board
(g) A mount paid as advances, Nil
if any
(h) Date on which the special Not Applicable
resolution was passed in
general meeting as required
under first proviso to
Section 188
2. Details of material contracts or arrangements or transactions at arm’s length basis
(a) Name(s) of the related party and nature of relationship
(b) Nature of contracts / arrangements / transactions
(c) Duration of the contracts / arrangements / transactions
NONE
(d) Salient terms of the contracts or arrangements or transactions including the value, if any
(e) Date(s) of approval by the Board, if any
(f) Amount paid as advances, if any
On behalf of the Board
S. PURI Chairman & Managing Director
(DIN : 00280529)
Place: Kolkata S. DUTTA Director & Chief Financial Officer
Date: May 22, 2025 (DIN : 01804345)
132 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 151]
Report of the Board of Directors
Annexure to the
INFORMATION UNDER SECTION 134 (3) (m) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 READ WITH COMPANIES (ACCOUNTS) RULES,
2014 AND FORMING PART OF THE REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY: TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION:
All business units continued their efforts to improve energy usage a) Efforts made towards technology absorption:
efficiencies and increase the share of renewable energy in line with
I. A s a part of Industry 4.0 initiative, various technological
ITC’s 2030 Goals. These goals include reduction in specific energy
innovations are being implemented. Key highlights are
by 30% and specific GHG by 50% along with increasing renewable
presented below:
energy share to 50% and sourcing 100% of purchased electricity
a. Foods Business’s ‘Focus Factory’ initiative is aimed at
from renewables. The Company regularly tracks its performance
building robust digital infrastructure to enable real time
against these key performance indicators. The Company invests
monitoring of operational parameters and utilise it towards
in energy conservation and renewable energy projects along
advanced data analytics such as Artificial Intelligence and
with exploring innovative technologies to bring alignment with
Machine Learning. Some of the key projects implemented
the goals. These investments are done in phases by taking into
during the year are:
account future expansion plans, evolving regulatory frameworks,
techno-commercial feasibility and socio-political aspects. i. Reduction in moisture content of atta to maintain quality.
ii. Reduction in variations of weight in atta and snacks.
a) Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy:
iii. Vision system to detect short-pack and nut density for
Some of the energy conservation measures adopted across the
biscuits.
Company are outlined below:
iv. Condition based monitoring of critical equipment to
I. Retrofitting of boiler to reduce power consumption in fans
reduce unplanned downtime.
and fuel handling system in Paper Business.
b. Installed advanced data management system to capture
II. Installation of static electricity discharge nets in Air Handling
real-time operations data across businesses that helps
Units (AHUs) to eliminate electrostatic disturbance thereby
in building machine learning tools. These tools help in
improving heat transfer efficiency in Foods Business.
improving quality; increasing throughput and energy
III. I nstallation of Automatic Tube Cleaning System (ATCS)
performance; reducing material consumption and costs.
to reduce scaling thereby improving chiller efficiency in
II. I nstalled state-of-the art equipment such as induction
Packaging and Printing Business.
heating, headbox, shoe press etc. across the paper
IV. Installation of air preheater and thermic booster systems in
machines to enhance productivity and quality.
Packaging and Printing Business.
III. I nstalled state-of-the-art spectrophotometer to reduce
V. Installation of closed loop condensate recovery system in
shade variations in décor grade paper.
Foods Business.
IV. New process and product technologies on personal
VI. Installation of thermo-compressor in Agri Business.
hygiene, skin care and fragrances developed through
VII. Installation of Variable Frequency Drives (VFDs) for various
in-house Research & Development in the Personal Care
pumps, agitators, blowers, and chillers across Businesses.
Products Business.
VIII. R eplacement of air conditioners, chiller, cooling tower, battery
V. Induction of contemporary technologies and continuous
chargers, transformer, UPS, motors, agitator, blower, fans
improvement across businesses, towards reducing process
and pumps with higher efficiency ones across Businesses.
variability, cycle time and wastages while enhancing
IX. Improvement in energy usage efficiency in lighting systems
manufacturing flexibility, productivity and capability across
by changing over to efficient lighting solutions such as Light
Businesses.
Emitting Diodes (LEDs) across Businesses.
b) Benefits derived:
X. Process improvements to enhance productivity and reduce
specific energy consumption across Businesses. I. Cycle time reduction and productivity enhancement
These investments have resulted in energy savings of over 40 TJ II. World-class quality and differentiated products
during the year. III. A ddressing market specific end-use applications
b) Steps taken for utilising alternate sources of energy: IV. Conservation of resources and improved efficiencies
Some of the renewable energy initiatives undertaken during the c) The expenditure incurred on Research and Development:
year are as follows:
For the year ended
I. Commissioning of 10.8 MWp onsite solar photovoltaic
31st March, 2025
power plants across ITC Units.
II. Commissioning of biomass boiler in the newly built personal Expenditure on R&D: (` in Lakhs)
care factory in West Bengal.
i) Capital 1,395.62
III. C ontinued use of renewable electricity from existing wind/
solar power plants and utilization of biomass in existing ii) Revenue 18,768.49
biomass boilers across Businesses.
Total 20,164.10
These investments have helped ITC increase its renewable
electricity capacity to 174 MW 1. These investments along with Total R&D Expenditure (as a % of Gross Revenue) 0.27%
investments in renewable thermal energy have helped ITC achieve
an overall renewable energy share of 52% despite significant
increase in production across Businesses. On behalf of the Board
c) Capital investment on energy conservation equipment:
S. PURI Chairman & Managing Director
1,584 lakhs INR
(DIN : 00280529)
1 E xcluding 51 MW of renewable energy assets transferred to ITC Hotels Limited
Kolkata, India S. DUTTA Director & Chief Financial Officer
post demerger. Total commissioned capacity including that of ITC Hotels Limited
is 225MW. 22nd May, 2025 (DIN : 01804345)
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 133