[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 101-103

[PAGE 101]
Report of the Board of Directors
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the company and Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited have been
recorded a Net Profit of ` 0.25 crore (previous year transferred to ITCHL on a going concern basis from the
` 0.22 crore). The Net Worth of the company stood at Effective Date i.e., 1st January 2025. ITCHL issued and
` 5.57 crores as at 31st March, 2025 (previous year allotted equity shares to the shareholders of your Company
` 5.32 crores). as per the share entitlement ratio provided in the Scheme
and consequently your Company holds 39.88% stake in
Your Company’s total investment in LDPL was
ITCHL as at 31st March 2025. Consequently, ITCHL has
` 41.95 crores. Your Company had made provision of the
become an Associate of your Company.
entire investment amount as diminution in the carrying
value of investment in the previous years and consequently ITCHL is amongst the fastest growing hospitality
the carrying value of your Company’s investment in LDPL chains in the country with over 140 properties and
as at 31st March, 2025, is Nil. 13,300 rooms under multiple brands catering to different
market segments. ITCHL is recognised for its portfolio of
The financial statements of LDPL for the year ended
world-class properties, iconic bouquet of brands, cuisine
31st March, 2025, are yet to be approved by its
expertise and service excellence. Anchored on the ethos
Board of Directors. In the absence of audited financial
of ‘Responsible Luxury’, ITCHL is a global exemplar in
statements of LDPL, the Consolidated Financial
sustainable hospitality.
Statements of your Company for the year ended
31st March, 2025, have been prepared based on the The company delivered robust performance during
financial statements prepared by the management the year clocking record high revenue and profits.
of LDPL. Room revenues recorded strong growth driven by
broad-based performance across segments. Occupancy
NOTES ON ASSOCIATES
and Average Daily rate (ADR) witnessed robust growth
ITC Hotels Limited on the back of sustained demand across key markets and
smart revenue management.
ITC Hotels Ltd. (ITCHL) was incorporated as a
wholly-owned subsidiary of your Company in July, ITCHL continues to pursue an ‘asset-right’ growth strategy
2023. The Board of Directors of your Company and to drive growth while reducing capital intensity of operations
ITC Hotels Limited, had on 14th August, 2023 by focusing on strong partnerships with asset owners,
approved, subject to necessary statutory and regulatory leveraging brand credentials and providing operational
approvals, the Scheme of Arrangement amongst your expertise. A substantial part of incremental room
Company and ITC Hotels Limited and their respective additions is expected to accrue through management and
shareholders and creditors (‘Scheme’) for demerger franchising contracts going forward. The company is also
of the Hotels Business (as defined in the Scheme) progressing investments towards scaling up its portfolio
of your Company on a going concern basis. of owned hotel rooms. A greenfield project is underway
The Scheme was approved by the Honourable National at Puri, Odisha and a new block is under construction at
Company Law Tribunal, Kolkata Bench vide its the existing Welcomhotel in Bhubaneshwar. ITCHL also
order dated 4th October, 2024. seeks to leverage its strategic land bank to enhance the
portfolio of owned hotels.
Pursuant to the Scheme, the Hotels Business of
your Company (along with all assets and liabilities The hospitality sector in India is poised to grow rapidly
thereof, excluding ITC Grand Central, Mumbai) in the years ahead driven by growing per capita income,
and the investments held in hospitality entities i.e. rapid urbanisation, increasing societal aspirations and
Fortune Park Hotels Limited, Bay Islands Hotels Limited, low room supply penetration. ITCHL is well placed to
Landbase India Limited, WelcomHotels Lanka craft its next horizon of growth as a pure-play hospitality
(Private) Limited, Srinivasa Resorts Limited, entity leveraging your Company’s institutional strengths,
International Travel House Limited, Gujarat Hotels Limited strong brand equity and goodwill.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 83

[PAGE 102]
Report of the Board of Directors
Delectable Technologies Private Limited In April 2025, your Company executed Definitive
Agreements to acquire the balance 73.5% stake in one
Delectable Technologies Private Limited (Delectable)
or more tranches over a time period of about two to
is, inter alia, engaged in the sale of FMCG products
three years subject to fulfilment of prescribed terms and
leveraging app-based technology through vending
conditions.
machines, primarily installed across office locations.
The total investment of the Company in Delectable stands at ATC Limited (an associate of Gold Flake Corporation
Limited)
` 11 crores for a 39.3% stake, on a fully diluted basis.
The company is a contract manufacturer of cigarettes.
Delectable has significantly scaled down its operations
The company continues to deliver superior quality
during the year. Your Company has divested its holding in
products to its customers while maintaining high levels of
Delectable in May 2025.
flexibility and agility in its manufacturing operations.
Sproutlife Foods Private Limited During the year, the company received the ‘National
Award for Outstanding Industrial Relations 2023-24’ from
Sproutlife Foods Private Limited (Sproutlife) operates
All India Organisation of Employers in the MSME category
in the fast growing, nutrition-led health food space with
and the ‘Silver Prize in Manufacturing Small Sector’
a diversified product portfolio across multiple categories
at the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce
including protein bars, breakfast cereals, nutraceuticals
and Industry (FICCI) Awards for Excellence in Quality
etc. under the ‘Yogabar’ brand.
Systems 2024. The company was also recognised as an
During the year, your Company invested ` 30 crores in ‘Energy Efficient Unit’ by Confederation of Indian
Sproutlife, consequent to which your Company’s stake Industry (CII) and accredited with Social Accountability
now stands at 47.50% (previous year 44.74%) on a fully Management System Standard SA 8000:2014 by DNV.
diluted basis. Cumulative investment in Sproutlife stands
Associates of Russell Credit Limited
at ` 255 crores as at 31st March, 2025.
Russell Investments Limited, Divya Management
Sproutlife continues to register robust growth across its
Limited and Antrang Finance Limited
target markets in its core categories of Bars, Muesli and
Oats; product portfolio was augmented during the year The above companies are associates of Russell Credit
with the launch of protein drinks and whey protein. Limited. These companies are NBFCs registered with
the Reserve Bank of India and continue to explore
Mother Sparsh Baby Care Private Limited opportunities for strategic investments.
Mother Sparsh Baby Care Private Limited (Mother Sparsh) For further details on performance of the above-mentioned
is a premium ayurvedic and natural baby care brand, associate companies, please refer to Form AOC-1
which is focused on baby personal care, health & hygiene (Statement containing salient features of the financial
and expert baby care. With high quality products, Mother statements of Subsidiaries / Associate companies /
Sparsh aims to serve the needs of informed new-age Joint Ventures), forming part of the Report and Accounts.
mothers who are making conscious decisions to switch to
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
superior products for their babies.
The Corporate Governance Policy guides the conduct
The company recorded robust growth during the year
of affairs of your Company and clearly delineates the
on the back of increasing consumer franchise for its
roles, responsibilities and authorities at each level of its
differentiated product range and entry into the quick
three-tiered governance structure and key functionaries
commerce channel.
involved in governance. The ITC Code of Conduct commits
As at 31st March 2025, your Company held 26.5% stake management to financial and accounting policies, systems
in Mother Sparsh on a fully diluted basis at a cumulative and processes. The Corporate Governance Policy and the
investment value of ` 45 crores. ITC Code of Conduct stand widely communicated across
84 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 103]
Report of the Board of Directors
the enterprise at all times and together with the Strategy financial controls was observed. Nonetheless, your
of Organisation, Planning & Review Processes and the Company recognises that any internal control framework,
Risk Management Framework provide the foundation no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations and
for Internal Financial Controls with reference to your accordingly, regular audit and review processes ensure
Company’s Financial Statements. that such systems are reinforced on an ongoing basis.
Such Financial Statements are prepared on the basis
RISK MANAGEMENT
of the Material Accounting Policies that are carefully
As a diversified enterprise, your Company continues
selected by management and approved by the
to focus on a system-based approach to business risk
Audit Committee and the Board. These Policies are
management. The management of risk is embedded
supported by the Corporate Accounting and Systems
in the corporate strategies of developing a portfolio of
Policies that apply to the entity as a whole to implement
world-class businesses that best match organisational
the tenets of Corporate Governance and Material
capability with opportunities in domestic and international
Accounting Policies uniformly across your Company.
markets, developing capabilities and competencies for
The Accounting Policies are reviewed and updated from
the future in order to enhance competitiveness and win
time to time. These, in turn, are supported by a set of
in the markets of tomorrow. Accordingly, management of
Divisional policies and Standard Operating Procedures
risk has always been an integral part of your Company’s
(SOPs) that have been established for individual
‘Strategy of Organisation’ and straddles its planning,
Businesses.
execution and reporting systems & processes.
Your Company uses Enterprise Resource Planning Backed by strong internal control systems, the current
(ERP) systems as a business enabler and also to Risk Management Framework consists of the following
maintain its books of accounts. The SOPs, in tandem key elements:
with transactional controls built into the ERP systems,
– The Corporate Governance Policy, approved
ensure appropriate segregation of duties, tiered approval
by the Board, clearly lays down the roles and
mechanisms and maintenance of supporting records.
responsibilities of the various entities in relation to
The Information Management Policy reinforces the
risk management covering a range of responsibilities,
control environment. The systems, SOPs and controls
from the strategic to the operational. These role
are reviewed by Divisional management and audited by
definitions, inter alia, provide the foundation for
Internal Audit, whose findings and recommendations are
appropriate risk management procedures, their
reviewed by the Audit Committee and tracked through till
effective implementation across your Company
implementation.
and independent monitoring and reporting by
Your Company has in place adequate internal financial Internal Audit.
controls with reference to the Financial Statements.
– The Risk Management Committee, constituted
These have been designed to provide reasonable
by the Board, monitors and reviews the strategic
assurance with regard to recording and providing reliable
risk management plans of your Company as a whole
financial information; complying with applicable statutes;
and provides necessary directions on the same.
safeguarding assets from unauthorised use; ensuring that
– The Corporate Risk Management Cell, through
transactions are carried out with adequate authorisation
focused interactions with Businesses, facilitates
and complying with Corporate Policies and Processes.
the identification and prioritisation of strategic and
Such controls have been assessed during the year, after
operational risks, development of appropriate
taking into consideration the essential components of
mitigation strategies and conducts periodic reviews of
internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit
the progress on the management of identified risks.
of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of – A combination of centrally issued policies and
India. Based on the results of such assessment carried Business-specific procedures bring robustness to the
out by management, no reportable material weakness or process of ensuring that business risks are effectively
significant deficiency in the design or operation of internal addressed.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 85