[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 66-68

[PAGE 66]
Report of the Board of Directors
Historically, steep increases in taxation have adversely about 68% 4 of the total tobacco consumed in the country
impacted tax collections and legal cigarette volumes, while remains outside the tax net.
a stable tax regime has led to buoyancy in tax collections
The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), in its
as evidenced in the table below:
report “Smuggling in India 2023-24” acknowledges the
high incidence of taxes in India providing opportunities
Period Increase in Increase in
Tax Rate Tax Revenue for illicit trade of cigarettes. The report states: “Cigarette
Collection smuggling in India has become a growing concern, posing
serious challenges to the public health, the economy, and
FY 2012-13 to FY 2016-17 (CAGR) 15.7% 4.7%
law enforcement. With high domestic taxes and import
Apr 2018 to Jan 2020 over Jul 2017
duties on tobacco products, intended to curb tobacco
to Mar 2018 – 10.2%
consumption and safeguard public health, smuggling
Oct 2020 to Mar 2021 over Aug has become a profitable venture of criminal networks.
2019 to Jan 2020 13.0% 1.8%
The illegal trade in cigarette not only undermines
FY 2020-21 to 2022-23 (CAGR) – 16.0% government policies aimed at reducing tobacco use but
also results in significant revenue loss”.
Punitive taxes on the legal cigarette industry in earlier
Tobacco control measures in India have ranked amongst
years have resulted in rapid growth of illicit cigarette
the most stringent in the world from the time of enactment
trade – making India the 4th largest illicit cigarette market
of the Cigarettes (Regulation of Production, Supply and
globally according to Euromonitor estimates. Over the
Distribution) Act, 1975, to the present. India is also one of
years, this has created attractive tax arbitrage opportunities
the few countries where tobacco products are regulated
for unscrupulous players indulging in illicit cigarette trade
across the value chain – from their manufacture to sale to
accounting for about 1/3rd of the legal industry.
consumers. The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products
During the year, there were extensive media reports
(Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade
on the multitude of cases of evasion of taxes/duties
and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act,
by dealers in illicit cigarettes which were unearthed by
2003 (COTPA) requires cigarette packages to display
raids conducted by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence
the statutorily mandated pictorial and textual warnings
(DRI) and other enforcement agencies. ‘Illicit markets:
covering 85% of the surface area of the packet - one of
A Threat to Our National Interests’, a study published
the largest in the world.
by FICCI-TARI in September 2022, noted that
It is pertinent to note that smuggled international brands
“The consumption of illegal cigarettes in India has
of cigarettes do not bear any of the pictorial or textual
increased, signalling a shift from legal products to cheaper
warnings mandated by Indian laws or, bear much smaller
substitutes or illicit products, which have no or little tax
pictorial/textual warnings as per the tobacco laws of the
element in them. When taxes are raised beyond a certain
countries from where these cigarettes originate. As reported
optimum level, consumers gravitate towards cheaper
in prior years, findings from research conducted by
alternatives or illicit supplies, which are normally smuggled
IMRB International, an independent market research
or tax evaded goods”. It is estimated that illicit trade
organisation, show that the lack of pictorial warnings on
causes an annual revenue loss of appx. ` 21000 crores
to the Exchequer. With respect to other tobacco
4 Report on the impact of current tax framework on the tobacco sector in India
products as well, the revenue losses are significant since and suggestions for its improvement - 2014, by ASSOCHAM and KPMG.
Punitive taxes on the legal cigarette industry in earlier years have resulted
in rapid growth of illicit cigarette trade – making India the 4th largest illicit cigarette
market globally according to Euromonitor estimates. It is estimated that illicit trade
causes an annual revenue loss of appx. ` 21000 crores to the Exchequer.
48 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 67]
Report of the Board of Directors
packets of smuggled international brands of cigarettes The Honourable Karnataka High Court, by its judgement
or their diminutive size creates a perception in the in December, 2017, held the 85% pictorial warnings to
consumers’ mind that these illicit cigarettes are ‘safer’ than be factually incorrect and unconstitutional. Upon Special
domestic duty-paid cigarettes that carry the 85% pictorial Leave Petitions filed by the Government and others, the
warnings. The combination of low prices to consumers Honourable Supreme Court has stayed the judgment
due to tax evasion and the misleading perception created of the High Court. The cases are pending before the
by the absence of statutory pictorial warnings provides Honourable Supreme Court.
significant buoyancy to illicit cigarette volumes.
The extremely stringent regulations along with the
India is among the top three tobacco growing countries discriminatory and steep taxation on cigarettes have had
in the world. Tobacco plays a significant role in the Indian numerous negative, albeit unintended repercussions.
economy on account of its considerable contribution to the These include:
agricultural, industrial and export sectors 5. Illicit cigarette
– rapid growth in illicit cigarette volumes, which resulted
trade also has a deleterious impact on farmers and farm
in sub-optimisation of the revenue potential of the
workers engaged in the tobacco value chain.
tobacco sector and significant loss to the Exchequer.
It may be noted that several major tobacco producing It is estimated that on account of illicit cigarettes alone,
countries, including the USA, have established regulatory revenue loss to the Government is appx. ` 21000 crores
frameworks taking into consideration the economic per annum.
interests of their tobacco farmers. The punitive and
– widespread availability of illicit cigarettes and other
discriminatory taxation & regulatory regime on cigarettes
tobacco products of dubious quality and hygiene
in India over the years, has adversely affected the
to consumers at extremely affordable prices. As a
livelihood of Indian tobacco farmers with corresponding
result, despite accounting for 1/10th of the tobacco
gains to those countries that have opted for moderate
consumed in the country, duty-paid cigarettes
and equitable tobacco regulations. These developments
contribute more than 4/5th of the revenue generated
coupled with lower export incentives in India and relative
from the tobacco sector.
weakness of currencies in certain competing geographies
– a large component of tobacco consumption in the
have, in the past, had a debilitating impact on millions of
country, aggregating around 68%, remaining outside
livelihoods, dependent on the tobacco value chain in India.
the tax net.
However, recent stability in taxes on cigarettes backed by
deterrent actions of enforcement agencies has enabled – persistent negative impact on the livelihood of tobacco
the legal cigarette industry to partially combat illicit trade farmers and others dependent on tobacco. Studies
and claw back volumes, thereby improving demand for by the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI)
Indian tobaccos. indicate that on account of agro-climatic conditions,
there is no equally remunerative alternate crop that
As reported in earlier years, your Company and several
can be grown in the FCV tobacco growing regions of
other stakeholders had challenged the validity of the
the country.
pictorial and textual warning covering 85% of the
surface area of the packet prescribed under COTPA. Your Company continues to engage with policy makers for
a framework of pragmatic, equitable, non-discriminatory,
5 Report on Tobacco Control in India, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, GoI,
evidence-based regulations and taxation policies that
2004 (Jointly supported by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, USA
and the World Health Organisation). balance the economic imperatives of the country and
Recent stability in taxes on cigarettes backed by deterrent actions of
enforcement agencies has enabled the legal cigarette industry to
partially combat illicit trade and claw back volumes,
thereby improving demand for Indian tobaccos.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 49

[PAGE 68]
Report of the Board of Directors
tobacco control objectives, cognising for the unique tobacco As a testimony to the success of digital initiatives on
consumption pattern in India. Stability in taxes is critical to HR practices, the Business was honoured with the
address the interests of all stakeholders of this industry, prestigious CII National HR Award for Excellence in
including tobacco farmers, consumers and the Exchequer. Digital Practices.
Manufacturing facilities of the Business continue to set Your Company remains well positioned to fortify its
new benchmarks in the areas of quality, sustainability, market standing in the legal cigarette industry, leveraging
supply chain responsiveness and productivity, driven its superior strategies, integrated seed to smoke value
through investments in new technology induction, digital chain, future-ready portfolio, robust innovation pipeline,
technologies, innovation, and ensuring product & process cutting-edge manufacturing & digital technologies
excellence. Cutting-edge technologies in the areas of and best-in-class execution capabilities. A stable and
Industry 4.0 and Data Sciences are being leveraged to equitable taxation & regulatory regime remains critical to
build a smart manufacturing environment of connected enable the legal cigarette industry to claw back volumes
systems. These initiatives, coupled with innovative
from illicit trade, as also borne out by recent experience.
capabilities, in-house design and development expertise,
have further improved the speed-to-market for launch of FMCG – OTHERS
new and differentiated offers of the Business.
The FMCG - Others Segment delivered a resilient
It is extremely satisfying to report that your Company performance amidst subdued demand conditions
continues to be recognised for its operational excellence. and significant increase in competitive intensity from
The Bengaluru, Pune and Munger units won the local/regional players. Costs of several major inputs
‘Apex Prize for Operational Excellence’ at the Integrated such as edible oil, wheat, maida, potato and cocoa
Manufacturing Excellence Initiative (IMExI) Awards witnessed sharp escalation, especially in the second half
organised by Kaizen Hansei Institute, a wing of of the financial year, weighing on margins. The inflationary
Kaizen Institute of India. pressures were partially mitigated through focused cost
In line with your Company’s commitment to the management, portfolio premiumisation, supply chain
‘Triple Bottom Line’ philosophy, the Business continued to agility, digital interventions and calibrated pricing actions.
focus its efforts for resource conservation and adoption of Trade and marketing investments were sustained at
best-in-class technologies and processes. Sustainability competitive levels during the year towards supporting
initiatives of the Business continue to receive industry growth and market standing. Additionally, the Notebooks
recognition, with the Kidderpore unit receiving the portfolio was impacted by sharp deflation in paper
‘National Energy Leader Award’ at the CII National Award prices on account of cheap imports of paper, leading to
for Excellence in Energy Management, and the Munger heightened competitive intensity with opportunistic play by
Unit being awarded the ‘Winner’ Award under the Best local/regional brands.
Energy Efficient Organisation (Large Sector) at the
Your Company’s FMCG Businesses recorded
CII National Energy Efficiency Circle Competition.
Segment Revenue of ` 21981.57 crores (previous year
The 21 MW wind farm in Karnataka received the
` 20966.83 crores), with Segment EBITDA at
‘Best Performing Wind Farm Award’ from Indian Wind
` 2163.92 crores (previous year ` 2338.50 crores).
Power Association in its geographical zone. Additionally,
the Pune unit secured the coveted ‘Sarvashreshtha A consumer-centric approach, driven by purpose-led
Suraksha Puraskar’ awarded by National Safety Council brands, a future-ready portfolio including value-added
of India demonstrating its commitment to safety. adjacencies and agility in execution backed by smart
Over 100 new products anchored on the vectors of Health & Nutrition, Hygiene,
Protection & Care, Convenience & On-the-Go, Indulgence etc., were launched across
target markets during the year, leveraging the R&D platforms of your Company’s Life Sciences
and Technology Centre (LSTC) and agile product development teams across Businesses.
50 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025