[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 11-13

[PAGE 11]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
Driving Purposeful Innovation:
ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre
ITC's Life Sciences & Technology
Centre (LSTC) is at the centre of
driving innovation in emerging
areas important for the future to
strengthen the competitiveness
of ITC's businesses and brands.
ITC-LSTC's Centres of Excellence
in Biosciences, Agri-sciences
and Materials, and robust
research platforms for Beauty &
Hygiene, Health & Wellness,
Agro-forestry & Crop Sciences
and Sustainable Packaging
Materials drive world-class
innovations.
ITC: Nurturing Talent
ITC places strong emphasis on nurturing future-ready, world-class talent with a growth mindset. ITC's diverse pool
of professional entrepreneurs, or ‘proneurs’, has the unique opportunity to nurture categories, products and
brands from ideation to execution, akin to a startup, while being backed by the scale and institutional strengths of a
diversified enterprise.
ix

[PAGE 12]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
ITC's Recent Value-accretive Acquisitions
ITC is pursuing value-accretive acquisitions to build a portfolio aligned with the evolving consumer needs and
business landscape. The emphasis is on opportunities that offer a strong strategic fit, complement existing portfolios
and present significant headroom for growth. The acquisitions focus on categories where ITC has a clear right to win,
leveraging its enterprise strengths.
24 Mantra Organic
Scaling up ITC's
presence in the fast-
growing natural and
organic foods space.
Prasuma
Building a full-stack Frozen, Chilled and Ready to Cook Foods Portfolio.
x

[PAGE 13]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
Century Pulp & Paper
ITC has signed a
Business Transfer
Agreement to
acquire the Pulp and
Paper undertaking
of Aditya Birla Real
Estate Limited, a
strong strategic fit
with ITC’s
Paperboards and
Paper business.
Yoga Bar
Enhancing ITC's market
presence in the 'Good
for You' healthy
snacking space.
Mother Sparsh Blazeclan Technologies
Enabling ITC's Personal Care Products Business Augmenting ITC Infotech's
to build a category of the future in the premium capabilities to service
ayurvedic and natural baby care space. customers in a multi-cloud
and hybrid-cloud environment
to accelerate growth.
xi