[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 89-91

[PAGE 89]
Report of the Board of Directors
favourable demographics and growing share of with international buyers of Indian Burley tobacco by
Modern Trade and e-Commerce. Growing awareness facilitating increased crop production, adopting Weather
of decarbonisation and heightened regulatory attention Resilient Tobacco Production Systems and strengthening
on plastic packaging are expected to drive growth crop competitiveness leveraging its sustainable tobacco
in sustainable packaging, including recyclable and programme. Deeper farmer & customer engagement,
circular solutions. operational agility and supply chain efficiency enabled
the Business to deliver enhanced value to customers and
With world-class technology across a diverse range of
consolidate its pre-eminent position as the largest Indian
platforms, leadership in sustainable packaging solutions
exporter of unmanufactured tobacco.
and best-in-class quality management systems, the
Packaging and Printing Business has established itself The Business has enhanced focus across the tobacco
as a one-stop packaging solutions provider to several value chain on the key vectors of Quality, Consistency,
industry segments viz. Food & Beverage, Personal Care, Compliance, Climate risk mitigation and Sustainability.
Home Care, QSR, Footwear, Consumer Electronics, To deliver on these parameters, sustained investments
Pharma and Tobacco. With focused investments in are being made in your Company’s Green Leaf Threshing
skill development and a distributed manufacturing plants (GLT) at Anaparthi, Chirala and Mysuru towards
footprint, the Business is well positioned to grow its capacity enhancement, delivering world-class quality and
marquee customer base while continuing to service the upgrading processing technology. Crop & region-specific
requirements of your Company’s FMCG Businesses. agronomic practices are being implemented at scale to
meet new and emerging customer needs.
AGRI BUSINESS
The Business continues to set benchmarks in leaf
Leaf Tobacco threshing operations through focused initiatives and
innovative technological & digital solutions such as real
Global demand for leaf tobacco exceeded supply during the
time chemistry measurement & analysis (chemosensory
year, due to supply disruptions in major sourcing regions
evaluation) for finished goods, Historian AI/ML engine for
caused by adverse weather events and international
advanced data analytics, AI based NTRM (Non-Tobacco
manufacturers rebuilding depleted inventory levels from
Related Matter) removal system, automation of material
previous years’ crop shortages. Despite growth in Indian
handling, etc.
Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco crop production during
the year, the surge in global demand caused heightened Strategic cost management remains a key focus area
competitive intensity amongst leaf exporters resulting for the Business. Digital tools such as AI/ML powered
in sharp rise in FCV procurement prices for the third real-time price discovery system continue to be scaled
consecutive year. up facilitating efficient leaf tobacco buying across auction
platforms. Several other digital initiatives, implemented
The Business continued to leverage its deep customer
across the value chain in recent years, have led to improved
relationships, crop development expertise, superior
operating efficiencies in areas of crop development,
product quality, world-class processing facilities and strong
leaf procurement and supply chain.
sustainability credentials to strengthen its position as a
reliable supply chain partner for global customers besides Synergistic R&D initiatives with focus on varietal
accessing new customers/markets. During the year, the development, climate smart farming techniques, farm
Business continued to increase its share of business level digital interventions and usage of water efficient
The Leaf Tobacco Business continued to leverage its deep customer relationships,
crop development expertise, superior product quality, world-class processing facilities and
strong sustainability credentials to strengthen its position as a reliable supply chain partner
for global customers besides accessing new customers/markets.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 71

[PAGE 90]
Report of the Board of Directors
technologies are being scaled up towards enhancing India and high import duty/tariffs levied in several markets,
productivity & product quality, reducing cultivation costs, including the USA and Europe, also continue to weigh on
strengthening resilience and capacity building of the farm the competitiveness of Indian leaf tobacco exports.
value chain to increase crop security and enhance farmer
As stated in earlier years, a more balanced regulatory
incomes.
and taxation regime that cognises for the unique tobacco
The Business has stepped up its engagement with farmers consumption pattern prevalent in India and the economic
to implement integrated energy management initiatives realities of the country remains critical to support the
spanning energy conservation, increasing alternative Indian tobacco farmer and the 46 million livelihoods
fuel usage and energy plantations towards achieving fuel dependent on tobacco. It is also imperative that the Indian
self-sufficiency in the curing process of FCV tobacco. leaf tobacco sector receives necessary policy support,
The Business implemented several decarbonisation including restoring export incentives to earlier levels, to
measures for farms, GLTs, and supply chain operations enhance the competitiveness of unmanufactured tobacco
throughout the year. The electrical energy needs of all exports from India and contribute to increase in farmer
three GLTs are substantially met from renewable sources incomes. According to an ASSOCHAM TARI 8 Study,
in line with your Company’s philosophy of adopting a the tobacco sector in India contributes substantial
low-carbon growth path. In addition to these initiatives, socio-economic benefits in terms of agricultural
your Company is taking up integrated watershed employment, farm incomes, revenue generation and
management programmes to ensure availability of water foreign exchange earnings. Your Company continues to
for irrigation during critical phases of the crop cycle.
engage with policy makers on these matters.
In recognition of its commitment to the highest
The Business will continue to provide strategic sourcing
standards of Sustainability, EHS & Quality, the Business
support to your Company’s Cigarettes Business and
received several awards during the year including the
fortify its leadership position as a major exporter of quality
‘SEEM National Energy Management award’ with
Indian tobacco, thereby catalysing the multiplier impact
Platinum rating for Excellence in Energy Conservation
of increased farmer incomes on the rural economy.
for Chirala GLT, ‘Silver Category in Industrial Safety
With its strong R&D capability, unique crop development
Leadership Award’ from Confederation of Indian Industry
& extension expertise, sustainability leadership,
(CII) for Anaparthi GLT, ‘Excellence Energy Efficient Unit’
digital expertise, state-of-the-art processing facilities
for Mysuru GLT from CII, as well as various awards from
and deep understanding of customer & farmer needs,
the Quality Circle Forum of India and CII for operational
your Company is well positioned to meet the current and
excellence, etc.
emerging requirements of global customers and sustain
While the recent stability in taxes on cigarettes and supply its position as a world-class leaf tobacco organisation.
shortages in global markets has led to an increase in
the demand for Indian leaf tobacco during the year, it is Other Agri Commodities
imperative to address certain structural factors to facilitate Amidst persistent geopolitical tensions, climate
sustained growth and competitiveness of leaf tobacco
uncertainties and macroeconomic challenges, concerns
exports from India. Punitive taxation on the legal cigarette
over global food security and inflation have intensified.
industry has over the years resulted in rapid increase in
Various policy measures implemented by the Government
illicit cigarette trade which has in turn adversely impacted
of India, including stock limits and export restrictions,
demand for Indian leaf tobacco as illicit products do not
use leaf tobacco grown in India. Lower export incentives in 8 ASSOCHAM TARI Study (2019)
A more balanced regulatory and taxation regime that cognises for the
unique tobacco consumption pattern prevalent in India and the economic realities
of the country remains critical to support the Indian tobacco farmer and
the 46 million livelihoods dependent on tobacco.
72 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 91]
Report of the Board of Directors
continued to pose myriad challenges to your Company’s organic products. Committed to sustainable farm
Agri Business during the year. management practices backed by Rainforest Alliance
and Global GAP accreditation, your Company has
The Business continued to map risks and opportunities
successfully leveraged ITCMAARS to strengthen
arising out of the unfolding global trade dynamics and
farmer connections, improve traceability, and drive
build adaptive capacity to enhance resilience of its
sustainable agricultural practices. During the year,
business models. In spite of the challenging operating
the Business significantly expanded its value-added
environment, your Company leveraged its strong
portfolio, achieving substantial growth in organic,
farm linkages, extensive sourcing expertise, enabling
steam-sterilised, and processed powder segments.
traceable, attribute-based and identity-preserved sourcing
of commodities, multi-modal logistics capability, agile The Business remains committed to execution
supply chain operations, deep customer relationships, excellence - capacity utilisation at the state-of-the-art
and focus on scaling up the Value-Added Agri Products spices processing facility in Andhra Pradesh has been
(VAAP) portfolio, to drive robust growth during the year. further scaled up; the Business continues to maintain
Easing food inflationary pressures and higher inventories its unblemished track record in terms of complying
of food grains have enabled partial lifting of certain trade with stringent food safety parameters. The proportion
restrictions towards the end of the year, which augurs well of custom-made products in the overall portfolio has
for the year ahead. increased considerably, underscoring your Company’s
strategic focus on premium offerings. The Business
As reported in earlier years, the scope and scale of
has successfully broadened its customer base
operations of your Company’s Agri Business have grown
across various markets, showcasing strong customer
manifold over the years and currently encompasses
acquisition capabilities and a commitment to building
over 3.5 million tonnes of annual throughput in 22 states
lasting relationships. Additionally, the Business has
and over 20 agri-value chains. The strategic focus of
gained market share in the export market, reinforcing
the Business continues to be on accelerating growth by
its position as the leading Indian exporter of whole
rapidly scaling up its Value-Added Agri Products (VAAP)
and value-added spices.
portfolio, straddling multiple value chains comprising
Spices, Coffee, Frozen Marine Products and Processed – During the year, international coffee prices surged
Fruits, amongst others. primarily due to lower supply in global markets by
leading coffee producers viz. Brazil and Vietnam.
– Your Company further consolidated its position as
a preferred supply chain partner to buyers in spices Driven by strong demand, Indian coffee exports
such as Chilli, Cumin, Turmeric, and Coriander. witnessed robust growth.
The Business enhanced its presence in ‘food safe’
Your Company leveraged its strategic sourcing
markets, viz., the USA, EU, and UK, by leveraging
presence in major coffee-growing regions of India
its institutional strengths, such as identity-preserved
and deepened its focus on certified and sustainably
sourcing expertise, strong backward integration,
sourced coffees to expand its market share in exports.
supply chain control, and customer-centric strategies.
The Business strengthened its footprint across key
The Business continues to scale up its Organic and international markets, particularly in Europe and the
Integrated Crop Management (ICM) programmes, Middle East, by leveraging its long-standing customer
expanding organic cultivation across multiple relationships, strong sustainability credentials and
states to meet the growing demand for certified agile execution. Continued expansion of certified
The scope and scale of operations of your Company’s Agri Business have grown manifold
over the years and currently encompasses over 3.5 million tonnes of annual throughput in
22 states and over 20 agri-value chains. The strategic focus of the Business continues to be
on accelerating growth by rapidly scaling up its Value-Added Agri Products (VAAP) portfolio,
straddling multiple value chains comprising Spices, Coffee, Frozen Marine Products and
Processed Fruits, amongst others.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 73