[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 230-232

[PAGE 230]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Due to the magnitude and complexity of the transaction,
and considering the assumptions and estimates
required to be made by the management for the
purpose of accounting and presentation / disclosures
in the standalone Ind AS financial statements, this is
considered as a key audit matter.
Refer Note 29(x) to the standalone Ind AS financial
statements.
We have determined that there are no other key audit making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
matters to communicate in our report. prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance
of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating
Information Other than the Financial Statements and
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of
Auditor’s Report Thereon
the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements
other information. The other information comprises the
that give a true and fair view and are free from material
information included in the Annual Report, but does not
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
include the standalone Ind AS financial statements and
In preparing the standalone Ind AS financial statements,
our auditor’s report thereon.
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s
Our opinion on the standalone Ind AS financial statements
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
does not cover the other information and we do not
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
going concern basis of accounting unless management
In connection with our audit of the standalone Ind AS either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
information and, in doing so, consider whether such other
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for
information is materially inconsistent with the standalone
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Ind AS financial statements or our knowledge obtained in
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of this other information, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to whether the standalone Ind AS financial statements as
report in this regard. a whole are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
Responsibilities of Management for the Standalone
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high
Ind AS Financial Statements
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can
preparation of these standalone Ind AS financial statements
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,
that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
performance including other comprehensive income, cash
expected to influence the economic decisions of users
flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance
taken on the basis of these standalone Ind AS financial
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,
statements.
including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise
under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies
professional judgement and maintain professional
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended.
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement
the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and of the standalone Ind AS financial statements,
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; whether due to fraud or error, design and perform
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
212 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 231]
Independent Auditor’s Report
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate Ind AS financial statements for the financial year ended
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not March 31, 2025 and are therefore the key audit matters.
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless
is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. determine that a matter should not be communicated in
our report because the adverse consequences of doing
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
interest benefits of such communication.
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i)
of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
our opinion on whether the Company has adequate 1. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order,
internal financial controls with reference to financial 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of of India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of
such controls. the Act, we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to
and related disclosures made by management. the extent applicable, that:
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use (a) We have sought and obtained all the information
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based and explanations which to the best of our knowledge
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material and belief were necessary for the purposes of our
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that audit;
may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that by law have been kept by the Company so far as it
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to appears from our examination of those books;
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related
(c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such
and Loss including the Statement of Other
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Cash
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained
Flows and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future
with by this Report are in agreement with the books
events or conditions may cause the Company to cease
of account;
to continue as a going concern.
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and
financial statements comply with the Accounting
content of the standalone Ind AS financial statements,
Standards specified under Section 133 of the
including the disclosures, and whether the standalone
Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting
Ind AS financial statements represent the underlying
Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
(e) On the basis of the written representations received
presentation.
from the directors as on March 31, 2025 taken
We communicate with those charged with governance
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including being appointed as a director in terms of Section
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 164 (2) of the Act;
identify during our audit.
(f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal
We also provide those charged with governance financial controls with reference to these standalone
with a statement that we have complied with relevant Ind AS financial statements and the operating
ethical requirements regarding independence, and effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate
to communicate with them all relationships and other Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
(g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
year ended March 31, 2025 has been paid / provided
From the matters communicated with those charged by the Company to its directors in accordance with
with governance, we determine those matters that the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V
were of most significance in the audit of the standalone to the Act;
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 213

[PAGE 232]
Independent Auditor’s Report
(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of in other persons or entities identified in any
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or
information and according to the explanations provide any guarantee, security or the like
given to us: on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
i. The Company has disclosed the impact of c) Based on such audit procedures performed
pending litigations on its financial position in its that have been considered reasonable and
standalone Ind AS financial statements – Refer appropriate in the circumstances, nothing
Note 29(vi)(a) to the standalone Ind AS financial has come to our notice that has caused us
statements; to believe that the representations under
sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any material
ii. The Company did not have any long-term
misstatement.
contracts including derivative contracts for
v. The final dividend paid by the Company during
which there were any material foreseeable
the year in respect of the same declared for the
losses;
previous year is in accordance with section 123
iii. There has been no delay in transferring
of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of
amounts, required to be transferred, to the
dividend.
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the
The interim dividend declared and paid by the
Company;
Company during the year and until the date of
iv. a) The management has represented that, this audit report is in accordance with section
to the best of its knowledge and belief, no 123 of the Act.
funds have been advanced or loaned or
As stated in Note B of Statement of Changes
invested (either from borrowed funds or
in Equity to the standalone Ind AS financial
share premium or any other sources or kind
statements, the Board of Directors of the
of funds) by the Company to or in any other
Company have proposed final dividend for
person or entity, including foreign entities
the year which is subject to the approval of
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding,
the members at the ensuing Annual General
whether recorded in writing or otherwise,
Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly
with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies
or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or
to declaration of dividend.
entities identified in any manner whatsoever
vi. Based on our examination which included test
by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate
checks, the Company has used accounting
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee,
softwares for maintaining its books of account
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate
which has a feature of recording audit trail
Beneficiaries;
(edit log) facility and the same has operated
b) The management has represented that, throughout the year for all relevant transactions
to the best of its knowledge and belief, no recorded in the softwares. Further, during the
funds have been received by the Company course of our audit we did not come across any
from any person or entity, including foreign instance of audit trail feature being tampered
entities (“Funding Parties”), with the with. Additionally, the audit trail has been
understanding, whether recorded in writing preserved by the Company as per the statutory
or otherwise, that the Company shall, requirements for record retention.
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E / E300003
per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
Place of Signature: Kolkata
Date: May 22, 2025 UDIN: 25089802BMNPUK4099
214 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025