[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 127-129

[PAGE 127]
Report of the Board of Directors
Addressing anaemia at scale among all age groups As part of the community healthcare programme
through screening under Anaemia Mukt Bharat ‘ITC Swaasth Kiran’ initiative was launched during
(AMB), Rashtriya Bal Suraksha Karyakaram (RBSK) FY 2021-22 in Saharanpur and Munger districts. Under
and thereafter, loop closure through awareness the initiative, during the year, thirteen Mobile Medical
creation and linkages with Government schemes. Units (MMU) were functional (seven in Saharanpur &
six in Munger). These MMUs have provided free medical
Capacity building of frontline resources like Anganwadi
consultation and medicines to the rural community at their
Sevikas and ASHA workers is an integral part of the
doorstep. During the year, nearly 2.22 lakh individual
intervention and 16,000 were trained during the year
engagements were done with community members
on engagement with community, making effective
across 796 villages, 58% of which were with women.
‘six home visits’ and localised nutrition promotion.
Further, 43,400 diagnostic tests were conducted and
Screening of over two lakh women and children for anaemia 1,130 referrals made during the year. With the
was done in partnership with Government for baselining involvement of the Rogi Kalyan Samitis, upgradation of
and identifying priority areas for interventions. A 4E 23 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) based on Indian Public
approach of identifying hotspots (Exploration); awareness Health Standard was also done, taking the cumulative to
on dietary diversity and hygiene (Education); promoting 37 in five states. This has helped in increased footfall of
nutrition gardens and consumption of locally grown patients, including higher number of institutional deliveries.
‘5 Food Groups’ through nutri-groups (Encouraging); and
Understanding the need for high-quality doorstep
building capabilities of ASHA and Anganwadi Sevikas on
eye care for the community, your Company also
identification and management of anaemia (Empower)
continued its innovative layered eyecare intervention
was adopted to address the issue.
in Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, as part of which
Around 15.24 lakh people spread across 21 districts four Mobile Vision Units (MVU) were operational in
in nine states were covered during the year, under services in rural Saharanpur. These MVUs equipped with
your Company’s MCHN initiative aimed at improving the high end ophthalmic equipment can screen and diagnose
health-nutrition status of women, adolescents and children. eye ailments such as Cataract, Diabetic Retinopathy,
This included the partnerships with the Directorate of Glaucoma and other diseases. During the year, more
Women and Child Development, Assam for eight districts than 1.76 lakh community members have been screened,
including seven aspirational districts, and another with of which 16,589 cases were referred to the MVUs,
the Child Development Services and Nutrition Department and thereafter 1,082 cataract surgeries done at
Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh. Dr. Shroff’s Charity Eye Hospital in Saharanpur, who are
the partner for this intervention.
Project Samposhan was undertaken during the year to
sensitise the community on nutritional value of fruits and Your Company continued to enhance awareness on
various health related issues like menstrual & personal
vegetables, leveraging their existing agriculture expertise to
hygiene, reproductive health and diarrhoea through a
cultivate sustainable and healthy food. 40 youth trained as
network of 366 women Village Health Champions (VHCs).
Poshan Sathis engaged with over 1,000 rural households
These VHCs engaged with the community for promoting
and trained them on farming system for nutrition and setting
behaviour change and selling relevant health products
up nutrition gardens. SHGs and farmer collectives were
to the community, thereby also earning a livelihood. The
also strengthened to create local ecosystem for nutrition
programme was operational in two districts of Madhya
products. Iodine deficiency is considered as one of the
Pradesh and six districts of Uttar Pradesh, covering nearly
most common causes of preventable mental impairment
1.45 lakh women during the year.
and constitutes a significant public health problem.
Under the ‘Aashirvaad Smart India’ intervention, over To make potable water available to local communities in
seven lakh people were reached out through awareness Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, Reverse Osmosis (RO)
on iodine deficiency disorders and healthy eating. water purification plants were set up in villages where
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 109

[PAGE 128]
Report of the Board of Directors
the water quality was poor. With the establishment of The video ‘Desh Ek Raag’ was based on Raag Desh
36 new RO plants during the year, a total of 205 RO plants and featured scholars of the Academy. The year also
are operational providing safe drinking water to over marked its first Thumri Festival in March 2025 featuring
2.5 lakh rural population. renowned artists of the genre as well as scholars of the
Academy. Creation of the next generation of masters of
ITC Sangeet Research Academy
Hindustani Classical music for the propagation of a
The ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), precious legacy continues to be the Academy’s objective.
established in 1977, is an embodiment of your Company’s
sustained commitment to a priceless national heritage. Forging Multi-Stakeholder Partnerships
Your Company’s pledge towards ensuring enduring
Your Company’s Social Investments Programme lays
excellence in Classical music education continues to
continuous emphasis on building partnerships of value
drive ITC SRA in furthering its objective of preserving
for driving innovation & gaining contemporary knowledge
and propagating Hindustani Classical Music based on the
while effectively amplifying and executing programmes.
age-old principle of ‘Guru Shishya Parampara’.
Your Company has over the years formed Knowledge
The Academy is modelled as a professionally run institution
Partnerships with several national & international
that epitomises the teaching of Hindustani Raga Music.
organisations/agencies to maintain contemporariness
Through its eminent Gurus, it imparts intensive training
and leverage latest knowledge/technical know-how to
and quality education in Hindustani Classical music
continuously improve the quality of programmes.
to its scholars. The present Gurus of the Academy are
Padma Bhushan Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty, Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), aimed at pooling
Padmashri Pandit Ulhas Kashalkar, resources, and partnership with Governments are
Pandit Partha Chatterjee, Vidushi Subhra Guha, effectively leveraged to scale-up and amplify programmes
Pandit Uday Bhawalkar, Shri Omkar Dadarkar, implemented in your Company’s catchment areas.
Shri Abir Hossain and Shri Brajeswar Mukherjee. During the year, three new PPPs were signed.
Pandit Uday Bhawalkar was conferred the
The meaningful contribution made by your Company’s
Rashtriya Kalidas Samman by Government of
Social Investments Programme to address some of
Madhya Pradesh in November 2024 for the year 2022-23.
the country’s key development challenges, has been
The Academy’s focus continues to be on nurturing possible in significant measure, due to your Company’s
exceptionally gifted students selected from across partnerships with implementation partners such as
the country through a system of multi-level auditions. AFPRO, Anudip Foundation, Bandhan Konnagar,
Several scholars of the Academy have performed at Cheshire Disability Trust, DHAN Foundation,
various music festivals and have also been recipient Don Bosco Tech Society, DSC, Dr. Reddy’s Foundation,
of prestigious awards and accolades. Additionally, Educate Girls, FES, FINISH, IGD, KHPT, MYKAPS,
the Academy has presented its scholars and young MYRADA, Makkala Jagriti, Manav Vikas Sansthan,
musicians in ITC Mini Sangeet Sammelans, concerts NCHSE, Pratham, SEWA Bharat, SMGVS, Umang,
and Baithaks in locations such as Jabalpur, Hubli,
WASH Institute, Water for People, Youth4Jobs and
Dharwad, Sirsi, Lucknow, Jodhpur, Dehradun, Goa, Pune
Youth Invest amongst others. These partnerships, which
and Bangalore enabling the Academy to fulfil its
bring together the best-in-class management practices
avowed objective of preserving and propagating
of your Company and the development experience
Hindustani Classical Music.
and mobilisation skills of implementation partners, will
On the occasion of India’s 78th Independence Day, continue to provide innovative grassroot solutions to some
ITC SRA composed a special piece of music as a tribute of India’s most challenging problems of development
to the nation, which was presented on 15th August. in the years to come.
110 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 129]
Report of the Board of Directors
CSR Expenditure of safety in business operations. These initiatives are
bringing in positive behavioural changes.
The annual report on Corporate Social Responsibility
activities, as required under Sections 134 and 135 of the Several national awards and certifications received by
Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 8 of the Companies various units reaffirm your Company’s commitment to
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 provide safe and healthy workplace to all.
and Rule 9 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014, is
R&D, QUALITY AND PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
provided in the Annexure forming part of this Report.
Your Company’s state-of-the-art Life Sciences and
Environment, Health & Safety
Technology Centre (LSTC) in Bengaluru is at the core
Your Company’s Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) of driving science-led product innovation to build and
strategies are directed towards achieving the greenest support your Company’s portfolio of world-class products
and safest operations across all your Company’s units and brands. Over the years, LSTC has emerged as
by optimising natural resource usage and providing a a robust innovation engine that is a key enabler of the
safe and healthy workplace. Systemic efforts continue ‘ITC Next’ growth strategy. Reinforced with world-class
to be made towards natural resource conservation by infrastructure, resourced with a diverse team of over
continuously improving resource-use efficiencies. 400 highly qualified scientists, LSTC continues to drive
various initiatives to provide differentiation and competitive
Your Company believes that a safe and healthy work
edge to your Company’s brands and products.
environment is a pre-requisite for ensuring employee
well-being and adopting best practices in occupational Driving purposeful innovations that fulfil the needs of the
health & safety bears a direct impact on overall Indian consumer through superior offerings remains the
performance. With an aim to percolate safety deeper key objective of LSTC. Centres of Excellence across
into your Company’s operational practices and achieve domains viz. Biosciences, Agri-sciences & Materials
the ‘Zero Accident’ goal, your Company has adopted a sciences enabled building capabilities over the years
comprehensive EHS strategy founded on two pillars: to cater to the constantly evolving needs of consumers.
‘Safety by Design’ and ‘Safety by Culture’. Focused research across identified domains viz. Health
& Wellness, Formulation Design, Sustainable Materials &
Safety
Packaging, Agro-forestry and Crop Science has enabled
Your Company sustained focus on ‘Safety by Design’ the teams to harness contemporary advances in relevant
by continuously striving to improve safety performance core areas to translate ‘proofs of concept’ to novel product
and incorporating best-in-class engineering standards opportunities. Bearing testimony to LSTC’s innovation
for all investments in the built environment. Designs for capabilities while building the intellectual assets for your
all new greenfield & brownfield project investments are Company, over 800 patent applications have been filed
scrutinised to ensure compliance with relevant standards till date. Robust risk management practices are in place
and codes on safety. Periodic Environment, Health & to ensure that your Company’s intellectual properties
Safety audits continue to be carried out in operational remain adequately protected and to ensure mitigation of
units to verify compliance with relevant standards. information and infrastructure risk.
To drive a culture of safety, your Company, in addition Research programmes and projects are structured
to comprehensive focus on training, continues to hold through close alignment with the various Businesses of
structured conversations with workers on ‘Safe and your Company resulting in a robust innovation pipeline.
Unsafe’ Acts. These are supplemented by adoption of Additionally, in line with your Company’s relentless focus
keystone behaviours that inculcates individual ownership on operational excellence and quality, each Business
for safe behaviour. Your Company has also made use is mandated to continuously innovate on materials,
of Design Thinking principles for seamless integration processes and systems to enhance their competitiveness.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 111