[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 137-139

[PAGE 137]
Report of the Board of Directors
as they relate to your Company and/or its Businesses constitute about two-thirds of Net Segment Revenue.
are intended to identify such forward-looking At the heart of this transformation lies the power of
statements. Your Company undertakes no obligation to synergy, with seamless access for your Company’s newer
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, Businesses/initiatives to the deep and varied capabilities
whether as a result of new information, future events, resident across different parts of the enterprise, and its
or otherwise. Actual results, performances or world-class talent pool.
achievements could differ materially from those expressed
An extensive strategy reset has been undertaken in recent
or implied in such forward-looking statements. Readers
years to architect the structural drivers that will power
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
the ITC Next strategy of building a Future-Ready,
forward-looking statements that speak only as of
Consumer-Centric, Climate Positive and Inclusive
their dates. This Report should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements included herein and organisation to drive the next horizon of growth &
the notes thereto. competitiveness.
The FMCG Businesses have delivered strong performance
CONCLUSION
in recent years and are well poised to be rapidly scaled up
Your Company’s ‘Triple Bottom Line’ philosophy has across the three growth platforms i.e., fortifying the core,
over the years spurred the creation of innovative
addressing value-added adjacent opportunities leveraging
business models that synergise the building of economic,
mother brands and nurturing new vectors of growth.
environmental and social capital. It is now universally
Multi-dimensional interventions, including strategic
evident that enterprises of the future will not only have
acquisitions in high-growth and future-facing
to be agile, consumer-centric, innovative and digital-first
categories, have been made to accelerate growth,
but also purpose-driven and responsibly competitive.
enhance competitiveness and market standing of the
In line with its superordinate goal of serving larger national
FMCG Businesses.
priorities and creating value for all stakeholders, your
Company’s paradigm of ‘Responsible Competitiveness’ Focused interventions made in the recent past have also
focuses on building extreme competitiveness in a augmented your Company’s multi-channel go-to-market
manner that replenishes the environment and supports capability, resulting in manifold expansion in the reach
sustainable livelihoods. and availability of its products. Over the last five years,
market coverage has grown by more than 2x, facilitating
The strategic Vision of creating multiple drivers of growth
availability of products in nearly seven million retail
through the pursuit of market opportunities that best match
outlets of which more than one-third are serviced directly.
institutional strengths, has resulted in the development of
strong Businesses of the future anchored on a portfolio Sharp-focused investments have augmented capability in
of purpose-led brands, future-ready products and new gen channels such as e-Commerce, Quick Commerce
world-class quality. Today, your Company is the leading and Modern Trade, resulting in strong growth in sales
FMCG marketer in India, a pioneering trailblazer in farmer and enhanced market standing. In addition, investments
and rural empowerment through its Agri Business, the towards accelerating agile and purposeful innovation,
clear market leader in the Indian Paperboards and optimising supply chain efficiencies, accelerated digital
Packaging industry, and a global exemplar in sustainability. adoption, and strategic partnerships have significantly
ITC Hotels Ltd.–a group entity–is a pre-eminent hotel chain enhanced competitiveness. The impact of these
and a globally acclaimed icon in green hoteliering. Since multi-dimensional interventions is evident in the
the turn of the millennium, your Company’s non-cigarettes substantial margin expansion of 560 bps in Segment
businesses11 have grown nearly 40-fold and presently
EBITDA witnessed between FY 2018-19 and FY 2023-24
even in the face of heightened competitive intensity and
11 Excluding the Hotels Business, which was demerged during the year into ITC
Hotels Limited inflationary pressures.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 119

[PAGE 138]
Report of the Board of Directors
The FMCG Businesses will continue to leverage your The Paperboards, Paper and Packaging Businesses
Company’s institutional strengths as a key source of have made significant progress in recent years in
sustainable competitive advantage viz. strong backward terms of enhanced scale and profitability improvement.
linkages with the Agri Business, a deep & wide While the current year performance was impacted by
multi-channel distribution network, cuisine knowledge low priced Chinese & Indonesian supplies in global
resident in ITC Hotels Limited (a group entity), packaging markets including India, soft domestic demand conditions
knowhow and the robust R&D platforms nurtured by and unprecedented surge in wood prices, strategic
LSTC. Structural advantages arising out of distributed interventions continue to be made in areas spanning
manufacturing footprint, anchored on state-of-the-art ICMLs plantations, sharpening the product portfolio and thrust
strategically located proximal to large demand centres, will
on structural cost management. Representations
be increasingly leveraged to drive rapid growth of the FMCG
continue to be made at appropriate forums through
Businesses. With enhanced scale and margin expansion,
Industry associations for suitable measures to safeguard
the FMCG Businesses are expected to make increasingly
domestic industry and development of economically
higher contributions to your Company’s profit pool,
viable alternatives for plantations on degraded forest
thereby setting the stage for further value enhancement
land. Strategic investments have been stepped up
opportunities.
in areas such as pulp import substitution, proactive
The Agri Business has been a strong backbone and a capacity augmentation in Value-Added Paperboards
key source of competitive advantage for your Company’s segment, decarbonisation of operations, deployment of
FMCG and Cigarettes Businesses. The scope and Industry 4.0 technologies and towards nurturing robust
scale of operations have grown manifold over the years innovation platforms. Your Company has also recently
and currently encompass nearly 3.5 million tonnes entered into a Business Transfer Agreement to acquire the
of annual volume throughput in 22 states and over Pulp and Paper Undertaking of Aditya Birla Real Estate
20 agri-value chains. In recent years, the Business has Limited (Century Pulp and Paper), which is expected to
pivoted its strategic focus towards rapidly scaling up its add significant scale and economies to existing operations
Value-Added Agri Products portfolio to accelerate growth with potential for further capacity expansion, provide
and margins. With policy enablers in place, your Company locational advantage for efficient customer servicing and
is scaling up NextGen agriculture value chains that are
proximity to key raw material sources, mitigate operational
digitally enabled and climate smart, and re-structuring
risks through multi-site operations and enhance resilience
the back end into a robust network of FPOs. This will
across industry cycles through portfolio diversification.
further strengthen the sourcing network and facilitate the
The focus going forward is to fortify market leadership
development of customised supply chains for traceable
in the fast-growing Value-Added Paperboards segment
and identity-preserved sourcing of agri-commodities
by augmenting scale, driving cutting-edge innovation to
and in augmenting the product portfolio with the
rapidly scale-up single use plastic substitutes as a new
addition of value-added products such as staples for the
vector of growth, building structural advantage through
Food Service segment, medicinal and aromatic plant
product mix enrichment and scaling up the use of
extracts etc. Towards enhancing the competitiveness
emergent technologies such as Industry 4.0 to enhance
of domestic agri-value chains, fostering new
operational efficiency, reduce wastage and costs.
business models and augmenting value creation
opportunities, your Company has successfully scaled up Your Company continues to build a dynamic
ITCMAARS – a crop-agnostic ‘phygital’ full stack ‘Future-Tech’ enterprise powered by state-of-the-art
AgriTech platform integrating NextGen agri-technologies digital technologies and infrastructure (‘Mission DigiArc’)
and solutions – to seamlessly deliver hyperlocal and across the value chain adding significant impetus to digital
personalised solutions to the farming community marketing, digital commerce, digital products and digital
whilst creating new and scalable revenue streams and operations. Your Company today, is a pioneer in adoption
strengthening sourcing efficiencies. of cutting-edge digital technologies across strategic
120 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 139]
Report of the Board of Directors
impact areas spanning Consumer Experience, Business The resilience, agility and adaptive capacity demonstrated
Model Transformation, Smart Operations and Employee by your Company is a testament to the talent, determination
Experience. and untiring efforts of its pool of dedicated professionals,
associates and partners. Your Company’s diverse talent
Sustainability continues to be a critical focus area. Your
pool of professional entrepreneurs, ‘proneurs’, have the
Company is actively pursuing its bold Sustainability 2.0
unique opportunity to nurture categories, products and
agenda comprising multi-dimensional interventions in
brands from ideation to execution. This talent pool is
decarbonisation, building green infrastructure, scaling
being harnessed not only to create winning products and
up carbon sequestration, promoting climate-smart and
services for today, but also to seize larger opportunities
regenerative agriculture, restoring biodiversity through
as they emerge from the expanding horizons of your
nature-based solutions, enhancing water stewardship,
Company’s Businesses.
creating an effective circular economy and sustainable
packaging solutions, building climate resilience & adaptive Your Company’s Board and employees are inspired
capacity of value chains and developing inclusive value by the Vision of sustaining your Company’s position as
chains that can support 10 million livelihoods by 2030. one of India’s most admired and valuable companies,
creating enduring value for all stakeholders, including
Disruptive business models and value propositions
the shareholders and the Indian society. The vision of
anchored at the intersection of future frontiers of
enlarging your Company’s contribution to the Indian
Digitalisation and Sustainability form an integral part
economy is driven by its ‘Nation First: Sab Saath Badhein’
of your Company’s strategic roadmap going forward.
credo anchored on the core values of Trusteeship,
NextGen business models such as ITCMAARS in the
Transparency, Empowerment, Accountability and Ethical
agri-ecosystem, tech-enabled cloud kitchens in the food
Citizenship, which are the cornerstones of your Company’s
service space, sustainable paperboards and packaging
Corporate Governance philosophy.
solutions customised for end-use with focus on single
use plastic substitutes, are being progressed to actualise Inspired by this Vision, driven by Values and powered
these opportunities. Value-accretive acquisitions, joint by internal Vitality, your Directors and employees look
venture and collaborations continue to be proactively forward to the future with confidence and stand committed
pursued towards accelerating growth and value creation. to creating an even brighter future for all stakeholders.
On behalf of the Board
S. PURI Chairman & Managing Director
(DIN : 00280529)
Kolkata S. DUTTA Director & Chief Financial Officer
22nd May, 2025 (DIN : 01804345)
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 121