[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 22-24

[PAGE 22]
Your Directors
Committee Membership of other entities B. Sumant
Name of the entity Committee Position
Sumant Bhargavan (61), DIN: 01732482, was appointed
Russell Credit Limited Audit Committee Chairperson
as a Wholetime Director on the Board of ITC effective
CSR Committee Chairperson November 16, 2018. He oversees the Paperboards,
Nomination and Member Paper and Packaging as well as the Personal Care
Remuneration and Education & Stationery Products Businesses of
Committee the Company. He also oversees the TM&D Vertical and
ITC Infotech India Audit Committee Chairperson the Central Projects Organisation. Sumant, an alumnus
Limited Nomination and Member of the National Institute of Technology, Durgapur, joined
Remuneration ITC in January 1986, and has handled a wide range of
Committee responsibilities across several businesses.
Prior to his appointment as a Director on the Board of ITC,
Sumant was President - FMCG Businesses since
H. Malik
April 2016. Earlier, he was the Divisional Chief Executive
Hemant Malik (59), DIN: 06435812, was appointed
of ITD. He also held responsibility of the TM&D Vertical
as a Wholetime Director on the Board of ITC effective
as COO from November 2014 to March 2016 and as
August 12, 2023. He is also the Divisional Chief Executive
Chief Executive for a period of one year from
of the Foods Business Division of the Company.
October 2016. He spent his first 19 years with ITC in
After completing his B.A. (Hons.) in Economics from
Manufacturing operations of the Tobacco Division and
Delhi University and M.B.A. from the Indian Institute of
has worked in four production units as well as at the
Management, Calcutta, he joined ITC in June 1989 from
the campus and has more than 35 years of experience Head Office. In October 2004, he moved to the
across multiple businesses of ITC, including Tobacco & Foods Business and set up the Snack Food category
Foods, and the TM&D Vertical. under the brand name ‘Bingo!’. He has led ITC Infotech
India Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of ITC, as its
Prior to becoming the Divisional Chief Executive of the
Foods Business Division in October 2016, Malik was the Managing Director from September 2009 to October 2014,
Chief Executive of the TM&D Vertical from April 2016. and has been on the Boards of ITC Infotech’s
He headed the All India Tobacco Sales function in 2001. wholly owned subsidiaries in the UK and the USA.
He later assumed charge as the Head of Marketing of
Sumant has also been on the Boards of Surya Nepal
the then nascent Foods Business in April 2002, where he
Private Limited and The Tobacco Institute of India.
was instrumental in the launch and development of some
He presently serves as a Member of the CII Eastern
of the key food brands of ITC including ‘Aashirvaad’,
Region Council.
‘Sunfeast’, ‘Bingo!’, ‘YiPPee!’ and ‘Kitchens of India’.
He was then given the responsibility to set up the new Other Directorships
FMCG TM&D Vertical and was made the COO of TM&D
Name of the entity Position
in April 2008. He thereafter took over as the COO of
Cigarette Brands and Supply Chain, India Tobacco Division
ITC Fibre Innovations Chairperson &
(‘ITD’), in August 2012, and was elevated as the
Limited Non-Executive Director
Divisional Chief Executive of ITD in August 2015.
The Tollygunge Club Member,
Malik is the Chairman of the Food Processing Committee
Limited General Committee
of FICCI.
Malik does not hold directorship in any other entity. Committee Membership of other entities: Nil
4 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 23]
Your Directors
H. Bhargava Committee Membership of other entities (Contd.)
Name of the entity Committee Position
Hemant Bhargava (65), DIN: 01922717, was appointed
as an Independent Director on the Board of ITC UGRO Capital Limited Audit Committee Chairperson
effective December 20, 2021. Nomination and Member
Remuneration
Bhargava holds a Post Graduate Degree in Economics
Committee
from Lucknow University and has also completed
Masters in Financial Management from the Jamnalal Bajaj
Institute of Management Studies. He began his career
A. M. Bharucha
in 1981 with the Life Insurance Corporation of India (‘LIC’)
Alka Marezban Bharucha (68), DIN: 00114067, joined
as its youngest Direct Recruit Officer and rose
the ITC Board as an Independent Director effective
through the ranks to become the Chairman-in-charge and
August 12, 2023.
Managing Director of LIC in January 2019. In the same year,
A Senior Partner at Messrs. Bharucha & Partners,
he was also appointed as the Non-Executive Chairman
Advocates & Solicitors, Mumbai, she chairs the
of IDBI Bank Limited and LIC Housing Finance Limited.
Transactions Practice and her core areas of legal
During his career of 38 years, he has held a wide range of
expertise include mergers & acquisitions, joint ventures,
leadership roles both in India and overseas, gaining
private equity and banking & finance. She completed her
extensive experience across Marketing, International
B.A. (Hons.) and L.L.B. from the University of Bombay
Operations and new business ventures. He has
and Masters in Law from the University of London.
successfully led teams across the financial services
She is a Solicitor with the High Court of Mumbai and
spectrum and pioneered innovative marketing and
Supreme Court of England and Wales, and also an
sales campaigns. He also served on the Board of the
Advocate on Record with the Supreme Court of India.
Company from July 2018 to August 2021.
She began her career with Mulla & Mulla and
Other Directorships Craigie Blunt & Caroe and joined Amarchand &
Mangaldas as a Partner in 1992. In 2008, she co-founded
Name of the entity Position
Bharucha & Partners, which in the past has been
SMC Global Securities Independent Director ranked by RSG Consulting, London, amongst the top
Limited #
law firms in India. With over 30 years of experience,
UGRO Capital Limited # Independent Director she has been ranked by Chambers Global, Legal 500
and Who’s Who Legal amongst India’s leading lawyers.
Wealth Company Asset Independent Director
Other Directorships
Management Holdings Private
Limited Name of the entity Position
Providence Life Limited, PCC, Non-Executive Director UltraTech Cement Limited # Independent Director
Mauritius *
Hindalco Industries Limited # Independent Director
Committee Membership of other entities
Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance Independent Director
Company Limited #
Name of the entity Committee Position
Orient Electric Limited # Independent Director
SMC Global Securities Audit Committee Member
Limited The India Cements Limited # Independent Director
ITC Limited 5
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 24]
Your Directors
Committee Membership of other entities Mishra is a retired IAS Officer with administrative experience
of nearly 38 years. He joined the Indian Administrative
Name of the entity Committee Position
Service in 1983 and during his long public service, he
has served as an administrator, policy-maker and climate
UltraTech Cement Nomination, Chairperson
change strategist holding a wide range of assignments
Limited Remuneration and
Compensation in the fields of environment, health, education, industry
Committee and power. As Secretary of the Ministry of Environment,
Forest and Climate Change, Government of India (‘GoI’),
Audit Committee Member he spearheaded the Indian efforts for addressing climate
change issues and policy interventions in matters relating
Aditya Birla Sun Life Audit Committee Member
to pollution & air quality. He led India’s negotiations at
Insurance Company
important forums such as United Nations Framework
Nomination and Member
Limited
Convention on Climate Change - COP (Conference of the
Remuneration
Parties) for dealing with climate change, and was also
Committee
instrumental in formulating two large programmes
Orient Electric Limited Stakeholders Chairperson viz., National Clean Air Programme and India Cooling
Relationship Action Plan. Prior to this, he was the Secretary of the
Committee Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GoI, and also held
additional charge of the Ministry of Ayush for some time,
Nomination and Chairperson
where he led one of the largest public health programmes
Remuneration
globally viz., National Health Mission. He also led
Committee
Mission Indradhanush and several other national
programmes including the National Health Policy.
Audit Committee Member
He is involved with various international organisations
The India Cements Audit Committee Chairperson and multinational companies addressing health and
Limited climate change issues, including as Member
Nomination and Member
of the Senior Advisory Board of Exemplars in
Remuneration
Global Health of Gates Ventures and Advisor to the
Committee
Rockefeller Foundation.
Other Directorships
Name of the entity Position
Shriram General Insurance Chairperson &
C. K. Mishra
Company Limited Independent Director
Chandra Kishore Mishra (65), DIN: 02553126, was Balrampur Chini Mills Limited # Independent Director
appointed as an Independent Director on the ITC Board Borosil Scientific Limited # Independent Director
effective September 14, 2024. IPE Global Limited Non-Executive Director
A Graduate in History from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, Raigad Pen Growth Centre Non-Executive Director
Limited
and Post Graduate Diploma holder in Media Law from
the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research DCDC Health Services Private Non-Executive Director
Limited
(NALSAR), Hyderabad, Mishra has also completed
Advanced Leadership Programme from Australia and Meradoc Healthtech Private Non-Executive Director
Limited
New Zealand School of Government, Australia.
6 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025