[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 105-107

[PAGE 105]
Report of the Board of Directors
ensures that all authorised users can access fast, reliable, crucial for long-term sustainability of its business and is
and secure connections from any location, on any device, committed to conducting its operations in a manner that
at any time. Your Company is also upgrading both endpoint protects, conserves and enriches biodiversity in line with
and email security by adopting best-in-class technologies the Board-approved Policies on Biodiversity Conservation
to enhance protection against external threats. and Deforestation.
The growing integration and convergence of Information Your Company sources several commodities for use as
Technology (IT) and Operational Technology (OT) within inputs in its Businesses and engages in agri-commodity
Industrial Control Systems significantly increases the risk of trading as part of its Agri Business. In respect of
cyber-attacks. Accordingly, a comprehensive OT Security commodities sourced for use as inputs in its Businesses,
policy has been established across all Businesses and an your Company has well laid out strategies to manage
assessment of IT and OT security maturity is conducted at risks arising out of the inherent price volatility associated
least once in two years. with such commodities. This includes robust mechanisms
for monitoring market dynamics towards making informed
The use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is becoming
sourcing decisions, well defined inventory holding norms
increasingly prevalent in various business domains. In this
based on considerations such as seasonality and the
regard, your Company has adopted a range of security
strategic nature of the commodity concerned, long-term
best practices, including an approved list of generative
contracts with suppliers and continuous diversification
AI tools and platforms, a data management framework,
of the supplier base to secure supply of critical items
mandatory proof of concept (POC) requirements, data
at competitive costs. Multiple sourcing models, wide
privacy controls, ethical AI usage guidelines, and user
geographical spread, extensive sourcing and supply
awareness training.
chain network and associated infrastructure in key
India ranks among the most vulnerable countries in the
growing areas coupled with deep-rooted farmer linkages
world in terms of climate change impact. As part of its
and use of digital technologies ensure sourcing of high
Sustainability 2.0 vision, your Company is pursuing a
quality agri-commodities at competitive costs.
multi-pronged climate strategy that entails extensive
In respect of agri-commodity trading, your Company has
decarbonisation and building resilience against climate
a well-defined policy to manage risks associated with
risk across the value chain.
sourcing of such commodities. This includes:
Your Company’s low carbon growth approach focuses
on increasing the share of renewable energy, improving – segregation of duties and robust internal controls
through a system of checks and balances embedded
energy productivity, construction of green buildings,
greening logistics, optimising ‘distance-to-market’ and in the organisation and governance structure
promoting regenerative agriculture practices in agri-value – clearly defined limits for trading positions (long and
chains, thus enabling transition to a net zero economy. short) and net cash loss for specific commodities/
Simultaneously, your Company is actively working commodity groups
towards climate-proofing its operations and agricultural
– mitigation of price, liquidity and counter party risks
value chains by using state-of-the-art climate risk
through hedging on commodity exchanges (mainly
modelling techniques and developing site-specific risk
NCDEX) for certain commodities, as applicable.
mitigation strategies. Your Company’s approach towards
Correlation between prices prevailing in the physical
water stewardship is aligned with the Alliance for Water
market and those on the commodity exchange is
Stewardship Standard, a globally recognised framework
analysed regularly to ensure effectiveness of hedging
for assessing the efficacy of water management across
water stressed sites. Further, your Company recognises – robust monitoring and review mechanisms of net
that the preservation and nurturing of biodiversity is open positions and ‘value at risk’
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 87

[PAGE 106]
Report of the Board of Directors
– ECGC cover for exports (covering commercial & operations, security of assets, prevention and detection of
political risks) and credit insurance for large domestic frauds/errors, accuracy and completeness of accounting
customers. records and compliance with various regulatory
requirements as applicable.
The combination of policies and processes as outlined
above adequately addresses the various risks associated Your Company’s independent and robust Internal Audit
with sourcing of commodities for your Company’s processes, both at the Business and Corporate levels,
Businesses. provide assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness
of internal controls, compliance with business processes
Your Company’s strategy of backward integration in
and procedures, internal policies and regulatory
sourcing of agri-commodities such as wheat, potato,
requirements. The role of Internal Audit is to enhance
fruit pulp, spices, milk and leaf tobacco; in-house
and protect organisational value by providing risk-based
manufacturing of paperboards, paper and packaging
assurance, advice and insight, while enabling continuous
(including pulp production and print cylinder making
improvement of your Company’s internal control systems.
facilities); wood procurement from the economic vicinity
of the Bhadrachalam unit, facilitates access to critical The Internal Audit function, comprising professionally
inputs at benchmark quality and competitive cost qualified accountants, engineers, and Information
besides ensuring security of supplies. Further, each of Technology (IT) specialists, is well-equipped and
resourced to provide audit assurances at the highest
your Company’s Businesses continuously focuses on
levels. Targeted learning and development programmes
product mix enrichment and yield improvement towards
on contemporary topics are periodically organised to
protecting margins and insulating operations from spikes
enhance knowledge and skill set of the audit team.
in input prices.
The scope and coverage of Internal Audit remains
The Risk Management Committee met thrice during the
contemporary and cognises, inter alia, for the rapid
year and was updated on the status and effectiveness of
digitalisation of your Company’s business operations.
the risk management plans. The Audit Committee was
In recent years, Internal Audit has enhanced focus on
also updated on the effectiveness of your Company’s Risk
systems and controls pertaining to your Company’s digital
Management systems and policies.
assets including brand websites, social media handles,
The risk management practices of your Company,
mobile and cloud applications, IT-OT integration, and
as reviewed through the Risk Management Cell and
protection of sensitive personal data and information.
Internal Audit processes, have been found to be relevant
Information security and cybersecurity have assumed
and commensurate with the size and complexity of
critical significance with the accelerated adoption of
its operations.
digital technologies. In this context, periodical reviews
AUDIT AND SYSTEMS are conducted focusing on assessment of controls
pertaining to confidentiality, integrity and availability of
Your Company believes that strong internal control
business information and systems covering general IT
systems that are commensurate with the scale, scope
controls and security of your Company’s IT Infrastructure.
and complexity of its operations are concomitant to the
All systems and policies relating to Information
principle of governance that freedom of management
Management are regularly reviewed and benchmarked to
should be exercised within a framework of appropriate
ensure they remain contemporary. Furthermore, all critical
checks and balances.
IT systems undergo pre-implementation audit before being
Your Company remains committed to ensuring a mature deployed in the operating environment, thereby providing
and effective internal control environment that, inter alia, assurance regarding the rigour of implementation and
provides assurance on orderly and efficient conduct of operational readiness.
88 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 107]
Report of the Board of Directors
Aligned with your Company’s ‘Digital First’ strategy, HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
the Internal Audit function has evolved into an agile,
Your Company’s thought, strategy and action are inspired
multi-skilled and technology-enabled function. Processes
by a larger purpose of being an exemplary Indian enterprise
within Internal Audit function are continuously enhanced
that not only delivers superior competitive performance,
for greater effectiveness and productivity by utilising
but also embeds sustainability and inclusiveness at the
best-in-class tools for audit analytics, intelligent
core of its Businesses. This approach enables your
automation, adoption of new open-source tools and
Company to delight consumers and customers with a
AI-enabled BOTs. Utilisation of the recently implemented
vibrant portfolio of industry leading products and services
Digital Audit Management System, a tool for end-to-end while generating enduring value for the Indian economy
digitisation of audit life cycle, was scaled up during the and the larger community of stakeholders. The talent
year; key enhancements such as ‘Agile Audit’ module were management strategy of your Company is designed to
introduced to improve efficiency and monitoring across attract, retain and develop human capital that enables
the assurance process lifecycle. An integrated advanced your Company to sustain its position as one of India’s
data analytics tool has been adopted to enhance auditors’ most valuable corporations, whilst continuing with its
capabilities with low-code/no-code scripting, automated mission of building a responsible ‘Future-Tech’ enterprise.
data extraction, and analysis of both structured and Your Company’s employees relentlessly strive to deliver
unstructured data. In addition, several off-the-shelf tools world-class performance, collaborating with each other
were introduced for IT security checks, code reviews and and discharging their role as ‘trustees’ of all stakeholders.
vulnerability assessments of your Company’s websites, Your Company is committed to perpetuating vitality –
apps, and social media handles. its growth as a value generating engine and also as an
exemplary institution – so that it continues to succeed in
Qualified engineers within the Internal Audit function
its relentless pursuit of creating enduring value.
review the design, planning and execution of all ongoing
projects that involve significant expenditure. This Your Company’s Human Resources development
ensures that project management controls are robust approach spans four key organisational dimensions of
and yield ‘value for money’. The Internal Audit function Architecture, Alignment, Agility and Ability which are
supported through strategies crafted in areas such as talent
also leverages state-of-the-art industry-specific tools and
acquisition, engagement, diversity & inclusion, capability
technology to conduct comprehensive project audits.
building, employee relations, performance & rewards and
Your Company’s Internal Audit processes are certified
employee well-being. Through its various talent initiatives
as complying with ISO 9001:2015 Quality Standards.
and processes, your Company strives to deliver the value
Further, systems and processes are in accordance with
proposition of ‘Building Winning Businesses, Building
the Standards on Internal Audit (SIA) issued by The
Business Leaders and Creating Value for India’. The talent
Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
development practices help create, foster and strengthen
The Audit Committee of your Board met twelve times the capability of human capital to deliver critical outcomes
during the year. The Terms of Reference of the on the vectors of strategic impact, operational efficiency
and capital productivity while reimagining consumer
Audit Committee, inter alia, include reviewing the
experience, driving business model transformation and
effectiveness of the internal control environment,
enhancing employee experience.
evaluating your Company’s internal financial controls &
risk management systems, and monitoring the Your Company’s ‘Strategy of Organisation’ is designed
implementation of action plans arising from significant to promote agility through a culture and practice of
Internal Audit findings. Material observations, as defined distributed leadership enabled by a three-tier governance
in the Terms of Reference, are reviewed at the highest structure. This is manifested in market and consumer
level by the Audit Compliance and Review Committee facing Businesses, which are driven by empowered,
(ACRC) and the Audit Committee. cluster-based teams and supported by shared assets
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 89