[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 126-128

[PAGE 126]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company’s ‘Sunfeast Bigger Fantasies’ programme boys, and also focused on driving behaviour change
has covered 55,970 children from 60 schools across two among over 1.13 lakh school students through
states encouraging and nurturing their innate curiosity 2,300 WASH campaigns.
and ability to think laterally. 1,500 Young instructors
Your Company’s ‘Savlon Swasth India Mission’
were trained, who in turn engaged with these children
programme has been a front runner in driving behavioural
to encourage creative thinking & expression, and peer
change in hand hygiene through innovative experiential
learning & collaboration. 60 creativity fairs were also
training in primary schools. The Mission rooted in the
conducted with active participation from students.
belief of ‘Swasth Bacche, Mazboot Desh’ drove a range of
Skilling & Vocational Training initiatives to aid and enable the country in its fight against
preventable infections that create huge economic burden
This programme, aligned to Pradhan Mantri Kaushal
on the country.
Vikas Yojana provides training in market linked skills to
youth from marginalised sections including differently The programme, focused on spreading awareness for
abled, to enable them to engage in decent livelihoods. habit building of hand hygiene through interactive sessions
15,600 youth across 34 districts in 16 states were trained across India, covered 16,770 schools and reached out to
under different courses during the year, of which nearly about 32 lakh children during the year.
52% were female. Cumulatively, around 1.27 lakh youth
have been trained under the skilling programme. To scale Waste Management
up the skilling programme, your Company has also initiated
Your Company’s initiatives focus on creating replicable,
pilots for potential pathways of skilling in the community
scalable and sustainable models of municipal and rural
itself (1,700 trained in the year) and leveraging other skill
waste management that can be implemented across the
training partners in the ecosystem (893 in the year).
country to ensure that minimal waste goes to landfills.
Further, the programme for skilling differently abled youth Details of these models are provided in the section
running in Karnataka and West Bengal last year, was on ’Building a Circular Economy for Post-Consumer
expanded to Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha by Packaging’ above.
establishing new centres and also leveraging the existing
centres of implementing partners. During the year, Health & Nutrition
850 youth (cumulatively over 1,000) were trained and over
Your Company is adopting a holistic approach towards
530 have already been placed. Further, your Company’s
Community Healthcare, focusing on two major components
Sixth Sense programme, focused on making an impact
- preventive health care and curative services. Community
on the lives of visually challenged, covered 150 such
healthcare is initiated to address the challenges of
individuals across five cities.
awareness, availability, accessibility and affordability. The
objective of the initiative is to improve health and nutrition
Sanitation
by strengthening institutional capacity, supplementing
Your Company continues to adopt a multi-pronged
existing infrastructure, promoting greater convergence
approach towards improving public health and hygiene
with existing Government schemes like National Health
across 30 districts and 13 states. The programme focuses
Mission, leveraging technology and increasing access to
on ensuring sustainability of Open Defecation Free (ODF)
basic primary and secondary healthcare services.
habitations and then making them ODF+ through improved
hygiene, sanitation and waste management practices A two-pronged approach aligned to Government’s
which is aligned with Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0. POSHAN Abhiyan was adopted under Maternal and Child
Health and Nutrition (MCHN) programme:
Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) programme
was implemented in schools that included construction Focusing on first ‘1,000 days of life’ in high malnutrition
of sanitation units in schools, separate for girls and catchments covering mothers and children, and
108 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 127]
Report of the Board of Directors
Addressing anaemia at scale among all age groups As part of the community healthcare programme
through screening under Anaemia Mukt Bharat ‘ITC Swaasth Kiran’ initiative was launched during
(AMB), Rashtriya Bal Suraksha Karyakaram (RBSK) FY 2021-22 in Saharanpur and Munger districts. Under
and thereafter, loop closure through awareness the initiative, during the year, thirteen Mobile Medical
creation and linkages with Government schemes. Units (MMU) were functional (seven in Saharanpur &
six in Munger). These MMUs have provided free medical
Capacity building of frontline resources like Anganwadi
consultation and medicines to the rural community at their
Sevikas and ASHA workers is an integral part of the
doorstep. During the year, nearly 2.22 lakh individual
intervention and 16,000 were trained during the year
engagements were done with community members
on engagement with community, making effective
across 796 villages, 58% of which were with women.
‘six home visits’ and localised nutrition promotion.
Further, 43,400 diagnostic tests were conducted and
Screening of over two lakh women and children for anaemia 1,130 referrals made during the year. With the
was done in partnership with Government for baselining involvement of the Rogi Kalyan Samitis, upgradation of
and identifying priority areas for interventions. A 4E 23 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) based on Indian Public
approach of identifying hotspots (Exploration); awareness Health Standard was also done, taking the cumulative to
on dietary diversity and hygiene (Education); promoting 37 in five states. This has helped in increased footfall of
nutrition gardens and consumption of locally grown patients, including higher number of institutional deliveries.
‘5 Food Groups’ through nutri-groups (Encouraging); and
Understanding the need for high-quality doorstep
building capabilities of ASHA and Anganwadi Sevikas on
eye care for the community, your Company also
identification and management of anaemia (Empower)
continued its innovative layered eyecare intervention
was adopted to address the issue.
in Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, as part of which
Around 15.24 lakh people spread across 21 districts four Mobile Vision Units (MVU) were operational in
in nine states were covered during the year, under services in rural Saharanpur. These MVUs equipped with
your Company’s MCHN initiative aimed at improving the high end ophthalmic equipment can screen and diagnose
health-nutrition status of women, adolescents and children. eye ailments such as Cataract, Diabetic Retinopathy,
This included the partnerships with the Directorate of Glaucoma and other diseases. During the year, more
Women and Child Development, Assam for eight districts than 1.76 lakh community members have been screened,
including seven aspirational districts, and another with of which 16,589 cases were referred to the MVUs,
the Child Development Services and Nutrition Department and thereafter 1,082 cataract surgeries done at
Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh. Dr. Shroff’s Charity Eye Hospital in Saharanpur, who are
the partner for this intervention.
Project Samposhan was undertaken during the year to
sensitise the community on nutritional value of fruits and Your Company continued to enhance awareness on
various health related issues like menstrual & personal
vegetables, leveraging their existing agriculture expertise to
hygiene, reproductive health and diarrhoea through a
cultivate sustainable and healthy food. 40 youth trained as
network of 366 women Village Health Champions (VHCs).
Poshan Sathis engaged with over 1,000 rural households
These VHCs engaged with the community for promoting
and trained them on farming system for nutrition and setting
behaviour change and selling relevant health products
up nutrition gardens. SHGs and farmer collectives were
to the community, thereby also earning a livelihood. The
also strengthened to create local ecosystem for nutrition
programme was operational in two districts of Madhya
products. Iodine deficiency is considered as one of the
Pradesh and six districts of Uttar Pradesh, covering nearly
most common causes of preventable mental impairment
1.45 lakh women during the year.
and constitutes a significant public health problem.
Under the ‘Aashirvaad Smart India’ intervention, over To make potable water available to local communities in
seven lakh people were reached out through awareness Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, Reverse Osmosis (RO)
on iodine deficiency disorders and healthy eating. water purification plants were set up in villages where
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 109

[PAGE 128]
Report of the Board of Directors
the water quality was poor. With the establishment of The video ‘Desh Ek Raag’ was based on Raag Desh
36 new RO plants during the year, a total of 205 RO plants and featured scholars of the Academy. The year also
are operational providing safe drinking water to over marked its first Thumri Festival in March 2025 featuring
2.5 lakh rural population. renowned artists of the genre as well as scholars of the
Academy. Creation of the next generation of masters of
ITC Sangeet Research Academy
Hindustani Classical music for the propagation of a
The ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), precious legacy continues to be the Academy’s objective.
established in 1977, is an embodiment of your Company’s
sustained commitment to a priceless national heritage. Forging Multi-Stakeholder Partnerships
Your Company’s pledge towards ensuring enduring
Your Company’s Social Investments Programme lays
excellence in Classical music education continues to
continuous emphasis on building partnerships of value
drive ITC SRA in furthering its objective of preserving
for driving innovation & gaining contemporary knowledge
and propagating Hindustani Classical Music based on the
while effectively amplifying and executing programmes.
age-old principle of ‘Guru Shishya Parampara’.
Your Company has over the years formed Knowledge
The Academy is modelled as a professionally run institution
Partnerships with several national & international
that epitomises the teaching of Hindustani Raga Music.
organisations/agencies to maintain contemporariness
Through its eminent Gurus, it imparts intensive training
and leverage latest knowledge/technical know-how to
and quality education in Hindustani Classical music
continuously improve the quality of programmes.
to its scholars. The present Gurus of the Academy are
Padma Bhushan Pandit Ajoy Chakrabarty, Public-Private Partnerships (PPP), aimed at pooling
Padmashri Pandit Ulhas Kashalkar, resources, and partnership with Governments are
Pandit Partha Chatterjee, Vidushi Subhra Guha, effectively leveraged to scale-up and amplify programmes
Pandit Uday Bhawalkar, Shri Omkar Dadarkar, implemented in your Company’s catchment areas.
Shri Abir Hossain and Shri Brajeswar Mukherjee. During the year, three new PPPs were signed.
Pandit Uday Bhawalkar was conferred the
The meaningful contribution made by your Company’s
Rashtriya Kalidas Samman by Government of
Social Investments Programme to address some of
Madhya Pradesh in November 2024 for the year 2022-23.
the country’s key development challenges, has been
The Academy’s focus continues to be on nurturing possible in significant measure, due to your Company’s
exceptionally gifted students selected from across partnerships with implementation partners such as
the country through a system of multi-level auditions. AFPRO, Anudip Foundation, Bandhan Konnagar,
Several scholars of the Academy have performed at Cheshire Disability Trust, DHAN Foundation,
various music festivals and have also been recipient Don Bosco Tech Society, DSC, Dr. Reddy’s Foundation,
of prestigious awards and accolades. Additionally, Educate Girls, FES, FINISH, IGD, KHPT, MYKAPS,
the Academy has presented its scholars and young MYRADA, Makkala Jagriti, Manav Vikas Sansthan,
musicians in ITC Mini Sangeet Sammelans, concerts NCHSE, Pratham, SEWA Bharat, SMGVS, Umang,
and Baithaks in locations such as Jabalpur, Hubli,
WASH Institute, Water for People, Youth4Jobs and
Dharwad, Sirsi, Lucknow, Jodhpur, Dehradun, Goa, Pune
Youth Invest amongst others. These partnerships, which
and Bangalore enabling the Academy to fulfil its
bring together the best-in-class management practices
avowed objective of preserving and propagating
of your Company and the development experience
Hindustani Classical Music.
and mobilisation skills of implementation partners, will
On the occasion of India’s 78th Independence Day, continue to provide innovative grassroot solutions to some
ITC SRA composed a special piece of music as a tribute of India’s most challenging problems of development
to the nation, which was presented on 15th August. in the years to come.
110 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025