[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 72-74

[PAGE 72]
Report of the Board of Directors
consumers unique and personalised experiences the Indian diaspora. SNBPL’s vertically integrated
that meet their taste preferences and reflect regional supply chain promotes sustainable livelihoods for
flavours and ethos. During the year, the Business its network of appx. 27,500 farmers spread across
grew on the back of distribution expansion in focus appx. 1.4 lakh acres of certified organic land in
states, sharp region-specific communication, and 10 states. The strong network of farmers and
an enhanced portfolio with innovative new offerings. certified organic sourcing capability are key sources
of competitive advantage for the company. The
The ‘Sunrise’ brand strengthened its market
acquisition reinforces your Company’s commitment
leadership position in the core market of West Bengal
to build a portfolio of future-facing winning brands that
and made significant gains in newer launch markets of
addresses the evolving needs of Indian consumers
the Northeast region and Bihar. The brand continued
and will unlock value creation opportunities by
to delight consumers by introducing unique and
leveraging your Company’s institutional strengths to
differentiated products catering to regional tastes and
drive synergies in areas such as product development
preferences, such as ‘Sunrise Soya Curry Masala’,
& innovations, sourcing, manufacturing, supply chain
‘Sunrise Chinese Fried Rice Masala’, ‘Sunrise
and distribution.
Schezwan Masala’ and augmenting the portfolio with
novel products such as ‘Sunrise Peri Peri Masala’ & – The Biscuits category witnessed resilient performance
‘Sunrise Restaurant Magic Masala’ for new age amidst a challenging operating environment. The
Business continues to strengthen its core portfolio with
consumers. ‘Aashirvaad Spices’ continues to enhance
investments behind powerful brand ideas, superior
its presence in new gen channels and core markets
products, cultural marketing with local insights and
to enable a full portfolio play along with expansion
unique innovations to drive growth. The ‘Sunfeast Dark
of the blended portfolio. The brand’s range of whole
Fantasy’ range of differentiated cookies sustained its
spices, launched in the previous year, also witnessed
leadership position in the premium segment. ‘Mom’s
rapid scale-up across online platforms. Aashirvaad
Magic’ range of cookies witnessed healthy growth
has appointed Natural Star Nani as the brand
during the year. The ‘Bounce’ range of cream biscuits
ambassador to strengthen the brand’s alignment with
was augmented with scale up of ‘Bounce Day & night’
cultural values such as the appreciation for cinema,
- a delicious dark choco biscuit with soft vanilla cream.
culinary traditions, and a profound connection to the
‘Sunfeast Supermilk’ biscuit harnessing the goodness
region’s unique customs and beliefs.
of ‘Naatu Maatu Paal’ continued to be scaled up in
On April 17, 2025, your Company signed a Share target markets. The portfolio mix was further enriched
Purchase Agreement to acquire 100% of the share with the launch of ‘Sunfeast Wowzers’, a 14-layered
capital of Sresta Natural Bioproducts Private Limited cracker enrobed with cream (currently available
(‘SNBPL’), an Indian company primarily engaged in Cheese and Lemon variants) and ‘Evening
Marie’ - a differentiated Marie with a savoury twist,
in the business of manufacture and sale of
in select markets. The Business also introduced a
organic packaged food products under the
portfolio of Super Premium Cookies under
‘24 Mantra Organic’ brand in the domestic as well as
‘Sunfeast Baked Creations’ with globally sourced
in international markets. SNBPL’s portfolio comprises
ingredients to leverage the advent of emerging niche
a wide range of 100+ organic products spanning
spaces in the Quick-commerce channel.
branded grocery staples, spices and condiments,
edible oils, beverages, etc. SNBPL has a strong Towards further deepening consumer engagement,
international presence with a deep connect with the brand launched several meaningful and
The ‘Sunrise’ brand strengthened its market leadership position
in the core market of West Bengal and made significant gains in
newer launch markets of the Northeast region and Bihar.
54 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 73]
Report of the Board of Directors
clutter-breaking campaigns during the year. exciting on-pack consumer offer with attractive prizes;
The Dark Fantasy brand, synonymous with the campaign was well received with over 13 million
turning everyday moments into extraordinary entries.
experiences, launched its ‘Big Fantasies’ campaign
– YiPPee! sustained its position as a strong No. 2 brand
leveraging cutting edge technology to deliver
in the Instant Noodles segment amidst heightened
fantastical experiences to consumers on ground.
competitive intensity. The Business continued to
Mom’s Magic further strengthened its core philosophy
strengthen its portfolio through a combination of
of ‘Iss Dil Ke Aage Sabki Har Hain’ with the launch
product laddering across multiple price points, wider
of the ‘Will of Change’ digital campaign which puts
assortment to cater to diverse consumer cohorts
a spotlight on the deep-seated societal bias that
and scale up of differentiated offerings. The portfolio
denies daughters their inheritance rights and
was further augmented with the launch of 2 exciting
advocates a shift towards equality, with mothers as
flavours in the Korean Noodles segment. Further,
the pillars of change.
the brand also forayed into Pasta Masala segment in
– ‘Bingo!’ Snacks delivered resilient performance during 2 flavours – Masala and Cheese. The brand refreshed
the year and strengthened its product portfolio with its communication outreach with popular Indian
the launch of exciting variants of snacks/namkeens. cricketers Jasprit Bumrah, Surya Kumar Yadav
During the year, Bingo! forayed into the Popped Chips and Rahul Dravid as celebrity brand endorsers.
segment with the launch of three exciting Investments in several high decibel campaigns were
variants - ‘Sour Cream & Herbs’, ‘Salt n Pepper’ and stepped up to connect with regional culture codes
‘Indian Spice Mix’, with 30% less fat proposition for to generate positive consumer buzz and increase
visibility across focus markets such as South region,
consumers indulging in mindful snacking. Leveraging
UP, MP, Bihar and Odisha.
the ‘Hot & Spicy/Korean’ trend, the Bingo! Snacks
portfolio was augmented with a slew of differentiated – The Frozen Foods Business operating under Brands
offerings straddling across product categories ‘ITC Master Chef’, ‘Farmland’ and ‘Aashirvaad’
including ‘Bingo! Tedhe Medhe Xtraa Teekha’, continued to grow at an accelerated pace, powered
‘Bingo! Mad Angles Red Alert’ and ‘Bingo! Nachos by a range of delicious and innovative products
Korean Flavour’. Other launches during the year catering to ‘any time’ snacking and meal occasions.
include an innovative Pink Salt flavoured The launch of no-onion-no-garlic ‘ITC Master Chef
‘Bingo! Original Style Pink Salt Chips’ and Millet based Sabudana Tikki’ made from ‘sendha namak’, suitable
offering under ‘Bingo! Tedhe Medhe Pudina Twist’. for fasting occasions and innovative products like
Having forayed into traditional snacks through Chicken Kievs has helped to further strengthen the
Bingo! Tedhe Medhe Namkeens in the recent past, product portfolio in Retail and Food Service channels.
the Business continues to register robust growth in The Business directly distributes to over 200+ towns
the segment. Bingo! remains the market leader in leveraging emerging and traditional channels and
the Bridges segment across the country, and in the smart digital marketing to expand consumer franchise.
potato chips segment in South India. With a view to The frozen portfolio now comprises of over 80+ Indian
reinforce its leadership position and build consumer and Western Snacks, Parathas, Naans, Prawns and
engagement, ‘Bingo! Tedhe Medhe’ launched an Vegetables.
The Frozen Foods portfolio now comprises of
over 80+ Indian and Western Snacks, Parathas,
Naans, Prawns and Vegetables.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 55

[PAGE 74]
Report of the Board of Directors
During the year, your Company signed Definitive product formats of badam milk, lassi and buttermilk
Agreements for acquisition of 100% of the share under the mother brand ‘Aashirvaad’. The core
capital of Ample Foods Private Limited (AFPL) in one portfolio of Dark Fantasy milkshakes has been further
or more tranches. AFPL’s flagship brand, ‘Prasuma’, augmented with the launch of a new unique product
is a leading player in the frozen, chilled and ready to ‘Vanilla milkshake with white chocolate’.
cook foods space in India and is a specialist in oriental
– The Confectionery Business continued to nurture
cuisine (viz. momos, baos, Korean fried chicken),
its range of premium portfolio by leveraging
high-quality delicatessens and raw meats, etc.,
‘Fantastik Chocostick’, ‘Jelimals’ and
sells a wide assortment of 170+ products, backed
‘Candyman Fruitee Fun 3 in 1 chews’. The Business
by unparalleled innovation expertise in developing
strengthened its leadership in the wafer rolls
‘Good-for-You’ products. This acquisition will further
category with the launch of ‘Sunfeast Dark Fantasy’
fortify your Company’s presence in these
crème filled choco wafer rolls. The offerings have
future-facing categories, with current annual market
received excellent consumer response while the
size of over ` 10000 crores and poised for rapid
clutter-breaking communication has enabled strong
growth in the years ahead.
brand recall among target groups.
– On April 4, 2025, your Company completed the first
– ‘Fabelle’ chocolates continue to receive excellent
tranche of acquisition in AFPL to the extent of 43.75%
response from discerning consumers, setting new
of the shareholding of the company, in line with the
benchmarks in the luxury and premium chocolate
Definitive Agreements.
segments. During the year, your Company opened
– ‘Aashirvaad Svasti’ - fresh dairy portfolio continued an exclusive Fabelle store at Bengaluru airport,
its strong growth momentum during the year, led by expanding the availability of the luxury range of
strengthening its premium milk variant ‘Select’ and chocolates beyond the luxury boutiques at ITC Hotels
driving significant growth in value-added products and Quick-Commerce channel. The ‘Sunfeast Fantastik’
(Curd, Lassi, Mishti Doi & Ghee) through superior & range of chocolates, comprising Choco Almond and
differentiated offerings. The fresh dairy portfolio is Fruit & Nut variants launched in the previous year, was
currently available across Bihar, West Bengal & scaled up across markets after receiving excellent
Jharkhand markets and it continues to enhance market feedback from consumers in launch markets. The
penetration through rapid scale-up of its distribution product range was further augmented during the year
network. The Business rolled out a new premium with the launch of ‘Sunfeast Fantastik! 4D’, a unique
variant ‘Shahi Lassi’ under ‘Aashirvaad’ brand which product offering four indulgent layers of crunchy
elicited excellent consumer response in the launch wafer, milk choco, soft caramel and nutty peanuts
markets. Ghee portfolio was further augmented with in every bite. The product, endorsed by celebrities
the launch of a health-focused product proposition, Sreeleela & Siddhant Chaturvedi, has elicited strong
‘Cow Ghee with 90% low cholesterol’. consumer traction.
– The Beverages portfolio has been refreshed with – Exports remain a key focus area for the Branded
launch of innovative offerings to address the evolving Packaged Foods Businesses. In addition to
consumer needs. During the year, the Business Aashirvaad Atta exports, which is already a clear
entered the Ethnic beverages segment, a growing market leader across several markets, the Business
space, with the launch of region-specific offers around has been continuously sighting opportunities to
Exports remain a key focus area for the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses.
In addition to Aashirvaad Atta exports, which is already a clear market leader across
several markets, the Business has been continuously sighting opportunities to scale up
exports of value added adjacencies. The Business is also witnessing green shoots
in exports of other categories such as Biscuits, Noodles and Snacks.
56 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025