[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 104-106

[PAGE 104]
Report of the Board of Directors
– Appropriate structures are in place to proactively Recognising Digital as a megatrend shaping the future,
monitor and manage the inherent risks in businesses your Company remains focused on building a dynamic
with unique or relatively high risk profiles. ‘Future-Tech’ enterprise powered by advanced digital
technologies and infrastructure across the value chain.
– Foreign currency exposures continue to be managed
Your Company’s digital transformation journey is also
within the framework of the Forex Manual.
resulting in changes in its risk profile marked by a
– A strong and independent Internal Audit function at heightened cyber threat environment. The cybersecurity
the Corporate level carries out risk focused audits
landscape is constantly evolving, characterised by
across all Businesses, enabling identification of areas
a diverse array of threats that target individuals,
where risk management processes may need to be
organisations, and critical infrastructure. Cybercriminals
strengthened. The Audit Committee of the Board
are employing increasingly sophisticated tactics, such as
reviews Internal Audit findings and provides strategic
ransomware, phishing and advanced persistent threats,
guidance on internal controls. The Audit Compliance
to exploit vulnerabilities and gain unauthorised access to
Review Committee closely monitors the internal
sensitive data.
control environment within your Company including
Your Company has a multi-tiered cybersecurity defence
implementation of the action plans emerging out of
strategy that includes firewalls, antivirus and anti-malware
internal audit findings.
systems to prevent, detect and respond to cyber incidents.
– At the Business level, Divisional Auditors continuously
These defence mechanisms are implemented at various
verify compliance with laid down policies and
access and data processing points, including endpoints,
procedures and help plug control gaps by assisting
data centres, network perimeters and cloud instances.
operating management in the formulation of control
To further enhance user awareness, your Company has
procedures.
established a comprehensive digital cybersecurity training
– A robust and comprehensive framework of strategic program for all employees.
planning and performance management ensures
The Cyber Security Committee of your Company, chaired
realisation of business objectives based on effective
by the Chief Digital and Information Officer (CDIO),
strategy implementation. The annual planning
establishes best practices, monitors the cybersecurity
exercise requires all Businesses to clearly identify
posture, and defines strategic priorities to ensure secure
their top risks and set out a mitigation plan with
and reliable services in a rapidly evolving digital landscape.
agreed timelines and accountabilities. Businesses
Your Company’s cybersecurity practices are guided by
are required to confirm periodically that all relevant
several international frameworks and standards, such as
risks have been identified, assessed, evaluated and
NIST and ISO 27001.
that appropriate mitigation measures have been
implemented. During the year, your Company operationalised the
Advanced Cyber Security Operations Centre (SOC)
Your Company endeavours to continuously sharpen
equipped with state-of-the-art capabilities including
its Risk Management systems and processes in
AI-driven threat intelligence from multiple sources.
line with a rapidly changing business environment.
Tabletop exercises have been conducted to improve
All Businesses of your Company have adopted the
incident response capabilities for the Cyber Security
ISO 31000 Risk Management Standard; risk management
Incident Response team, under the leadership of the Chief
systems and processes prevalent in the Businesses have
Information Security Officer (CISO). Further, the SOC
been independently assessed to be compliant with the
is being augmented with behavioural anomaly detection
same. The centrally anchored initiative of conducting
capabilities to enhance threat detection.
independent external reviews of key business processes
with high ‘value at risk’ continued during the year. In response to the progressive migration of workloads
These interventions continue to provide further assurance to the Cloud, your Company has adopted a zero trust
on the robustness of risk management practices prevalent architecture and has established a digital-ready, cloud-
in your Company. secure wide area network - ITC Digibahn. This network
86 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 105]
Report of the Board of Directors
ensures that all authorised users can access fast, reliable, crucial for long-term sustainability of its business and is
and secure connections from any location, on any device, committed to conducting its operations in a manner that
at any time. Your Company is also upgrading both endpoint protects, conserves and enriches biodiversity in line with
and email security by adopting best-in-class technologies the Board-approved Policies on Biodiversity Conservation
to enhance protection against external threats. and Deforestation.
The growing integration and convergence of Information Your Company sources several commodities for use as
Technology (IT) and Operational Technology (OT) within inputs in its Businesses and engages in agri-commodity
Industrial Control Systems significantly increases the risk of trading as part of its Agri Business. In respect of
cyber-attacks. Accordingly, a comprehensive OT Security commodities sourced for use as inputs in its Businesses,
policy has been established across all Businesses and an your Company has well laid out strategies to manage
assessment of IT and OT security maturity is conducted at risks arising out of the inherent price volatility associated
least once in two years. with such commodities. This includes robust mechanisms
for monitoring market dynamics towards making informed
The use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is becoming
sourcing decisions, well defined inventory holding norms
increasingly prevalent in various business domains. In this
based on considerations such as seasonality and the
regard, your Company has adopted a range of security
strategic nature of the commodity concerned, long-term
best practices, including an approved list of generative
contracts with suppliers and continuous diversification
AI tools and platforms, a data management framework,
of the supplier base to secure supply of critical items
mandatory proof of concept (POC) requirements, data
at competitive costs. Multiple sourcing models, wide
privacy controls, ethical AI usage guidelines, and user
geographical spread, extensive sourcing and supply
awareness training.
chain network and associated infrastructure in key
India ranks among the most vulnerable countries in the
growing areas coupled with deep-rooted farmer linkages
world in terms of climate change impact. As part of its
and use of digital technologies ensure sourcing of high
Sustainability 2.0 vision, your Company is pursuing a
quality agri-commodities at competitive costs.
multi-pronged climate strategy that entails extensive
In respect of agri-commodity trading, your Company has
decarbonisation and building resilience against climate
a well-defined policy to manage risks associated with
risk across the value chain.
sourcing of such commodities. This includes:
Your Company’s low carbon growth approach focuses
on increasing the share of renewable energy, improving – segregation of duties and robust internal controls
through a system of checks and balances embedded
energy productivity, construction of green buildings,
greening logistics, optimising ‘distance-to-market’ and in the organisation and governance structure
promoting regenerative agriculture practices in agri-value – clearly defined limits for trading positions (long and
chains, thus enabling transition to a net zero economy. short) and net cash loss for specific commodities/
Simultaneously, your Company is actively working commodity groups
towards climate-proofing its operations and agricultural
– mitigation of price, liquidity and counter party risks
value chains by using state-of-the-art climate risk
through hedging on commodity exchanges (mainly
modelling techniques and developing site-specific risk
NCDEX) for certain commodities, as applicable.
mitigation strategies. Your Company’s approach towards
Correlation between prices prevailing in the physical
water stewardship is aligned with the Alliance for Water
market and those on the commodity exchange is
Stewardship Standard, a globally recognised framework
analysed regularly to ensure effectiveness of hedging
for assessing the efficacy of water management across
water stressed sites. Further, your Company recognises – robust monitoring and review mechanisms of net
that the preservation and nurturing of biodiversity is open positions and ‘value at risk’
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 87

[PAGE 106]
Report of the Board of Directors
– ECGC cover for exports (covering commercial & operations, security of assets, prevention and detection of
political risks) and credit insurance for large domestic frauds/errors, accuracy and completeness of accounting
customers. records and compliance with various regulatory
requirements as applicable.
The combination of policies and processes as outlined
above adequately addresses the various risks associated Your Company’s independent and robust Internal Audit
with sourcing of commodities for your Company’s processes, both at the Business and Corporate levels,
Businesses. provide assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness
of internal controls, compliance with business processes
Your Company’s strategy of backward integration in
and procedures, internal policies and regulatory
sourcing of agri-commodities such as wheat, potato,
requirements. The role of Internal Audit is to enhance
fruit pulp, spices, milk and leaf tobacco; in-house
and protect organisational value by providing risk-based
manufacturing of paperboards, paper and packaging
assurance, advice and insight, while enabling continuous
(including pulp production and print cylinder making
improvement of your Company’s internal control systems.
facilities); wood procurement from the economic vicinity
of the Bhadrachalam unit, facilitates access to critical The Internal Audit function, comprising professionally
inputs at benchmark quality and competitive cost qualified accountants, engineers, and Information
besides ensuring security of supplies. Further, each of Technology (IT) specialists, is well-equipped and
resourced to provide audit assurances at the highest
your Company’s Businesses continuously focuses on
levels. Targeted learning and development programmes
product mix enrichment and yield improvement towards
on contemporary topics are periodically organised to
protecting margins and insulating operations from spikes
enhance knowledge and skill set of the audit team.
in input prices.
The scope and coverage of Internal Audit remains
The Risk Management Committee met thrice during the
contemporary and cognises, inter alia, for the rapid
year and was updated on the status and effectiveness of
digitalisation of your Company’s business operations.
the risk management plans. The Audit Committee was
In recent years, Internal Audit has enhanced focus on
also updated on the effectiveness of your Company’s Risk
systems and controls pertaining to your Company’s digital
Management systems and policies.
assets including brand websites, social media handles,
The risk management practices of your Company,
mobile and cloud applications, IT-OT integration, and
as reviewed through the Risk Management Cell and
protection of sensitive personal data and information.
Internal Audit processes, have been found to be relevant
Information security and cybersecurity have assumed
and commensurate with the size and complexity of
critical significance with the accelerated adoption of
its operations.
digital technologies. In this context, periodical reviews
AUDIT AND SYSTEMS are conducted focusing on assessment of controls
pertaining to confidentiality, integrity and availability of
Your Company believes that strong internal control
business information and systems covering general IT
systems that are commensurate with the scale, scope
controls and security of your Company’s IT Infrastructure.
and complexity of its operations are concomitant to the
All systems and policies relating to Information
principle of governance that freedom of management
Management are regularly reviewed and benchmarked to
should be exercised within a framework of appropriate
ensure they remain contemporary. Furthermore, all critical
checks and balances.
IT systems undergo pre-implementation audit before being
Your Company remains committed to ensuring a mature deployed in the operating environment, thereby providing
and effective internal control environment that, inter alia, assurance regarding the rigour of implementation and
provides assurance on orderly and efficient conduct of operational readiness.
88 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025