[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 25-27

[PAGE 25]
Your Directors
Committee Membership of other entities Other Directorships
Name of the entity Committee Position
Name of the entity Position
Shriram General Nomination and Member
Life Insurance Corporation Chief Executive Officer &
Insurance Company Remuneration
of India # Managing Director
Limited Committee
Corporate Social Member LIC Housing Finance Chairperson &
Responsibility Limited # Nominee Director
Committee
LIC Cards Services Chairperson &
Balrampur Chini Mills Audit Committee Member
Limited Non-Executive Director
Limited
Borosil Scientific Audit Committee Member LIC Mutual Fund Asset Chairperson &
Limited Management Limited Non-Executive Director
LIC Pension Fund Limited Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director
S. Mohanty
Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
Siddhartha Mohanty (61), DIN: 08058830, was appointed
(International) B.S.C (c), Non-Executive Director
as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of ITC effective
Bahrain *
January 1, 2025, representing LIC.
Mohanty is a Post Graduate in Political Science with a Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
Bachelors Degree in Law and Post Graduate Certification (Nepal) Limited * Non-Executive Director
in Business Management.
Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
Mohanty retired as the Chief Executive Officer and
(Lanka) Limited * Non-Executive Director
Managing Director of LIC on June 7, 2025. During
his career at LIC spanning nearly four decades, he
Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
has gained multi-dimensional experience across
(Singapore) Pte. Limited * Non-Executive Director
all domains of life insurance covering Marketing,
Human Resources, Legal and Investments. He has held Larsen & Toubro Limited # Nominee Director
various important positions in LIC, including tenures
Kenindia Assurance Non-Executive Director
as Senior Divisional Manager in-charge of Raipur and
Company Limited, Kenya *
Cuttack Divisions, Regional Head of a marketing vertical
in the Western Zone, Chief of Investments (Back Office),
Committee Membership of other entities
Executive Director (Legal) and Managing Director &
Chief Executive Officer of LIC Housing Finance Limited.
Name of the entity Committee Position
He was also designated as the Chairperson of LIC from
April 2023 to June 2024. Life Insurance Nomination and Member
Corporation of India Remuneration
Mohanty served as the Chairperson of the Council for
Committee
Insurance Ombudsmen, President of the Insurance
Institute of India, Chairman of the Governing Board of
Larsen & Toubro Stakeholders Member
the National Insurance Academy, Pune, Chairman of the
Limited Relationship
Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council, and
Committee
a Council Member of the Institute of Actuaries of India.
ITC Limited 7
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 26]
Your Directors
S. Mukherjee A. Nayak
Shyamal Mukherjee (65), DIN: 03024803, joined the Anand Nayak (73), DIN: 00973758, joined the
ITC Board as an Independent Director effective ITC Board as an Independent Director effective
August 11, 2021. July 13, 2019.
Mukherjee is a Chartered Accountant and also holds Nayak is a Post Graduate in Personnel Management and
Degrees of Bachelors in Commerce and Law from Industrial Relations from XLRI Jamshedpur. He joined
Delhi University. He is the former Chairman and ITC in 1973 and served for more than 42 years until
Senior Partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers (‘PwC’) in
his retirement in December 2015.
India. With over 37 years of experience, he started his
During his long tenure with the Company, Nayak held
professional journey with PwC in 1984 and became
various portfolios and worked across several businesses
a Partner in 1993. As PwC’s Chairman, he was at
as well as at Corporate Headquarters where he headed
the forefront of making it a more future-ready firm,
the Human Resources Function from 1996 to 2015.
investing in and strengthening the firm’s key capabilities
He served on the Corporate Management Committee of
across its people, go-to-market initiatives and internal
ITC for over 18 years from 1997 to 2015. He was also
transformation. He is the Managing Trustee of the
responsible for overall management of Social Sector
Phanindranath Education Trust, West Bengal, and also a
initiatives under the CSR agenda of ITC, and mentored
Member of the Bar Council of Delhi.
the Mission Sunehra Kal team in crafting enduring
Other Directorships
sustainability solutions for rural India.
Name of the entity Position
Nayak does not hold directorship in any other entity.
Bharti Airtel Limited # Independent Director
Urban Company Limited Independent Director
Handy Home Solutions Private Independent Director A. Pande
Limited
Alok Pande (53), DIN: 10631871, was appointed as a
Committee Membership of other entities Non-Executive Director on the ITC Board effective
July 27, 2024, representing the Specified Undertaking of
Name of the entity Committee Position
the Unit Trust of India (‘SUUTI’).
Bharti Airtel Limited Audit Committee Chairperson
Pande, a senior Civil Servant specialised in Finance, is
Stakeholders Member presently Additional Secretary, Department of
Relationship Investment and Public Asset Management (‘DIPAM’),
Committee
Ministry of Finance, GoI. He holds a Bachelors Degree in
Engineering (Mechanical) from the Motilal Nehru National
Urban Company Audit Committee Chairperson
Institute of Technology, Allahabad, and has also
Limited
Nomination and Member
completed Fellow Programme in Management (Doctorate)
Remuneration
from the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore,
Committee
in the area of capital markets.
8 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 27]
Your Directors
Pande qualified the Civil Services Exam of 1993 and played key leadership roles in complex business &
belongs to the 1994 batch of the Indian Postal Service. regulatory environments, and has led significant M&A
In his career spanning over 30 years, he has held various transactions as well as key strategic initiatives across
positions in the GoI, including Joint Secretary - DIPAM, geographies.
and Director - Department of Financial Services (‘DFS’)
Panray does not hold directorship in any other entity.
in the Ministry of Finance. As Joint Secretary, he handled
the IPO of LIC and played a key role in listing of three
more Government companies viz., Mazagon Dock
Shipbuilders Limited, Indian Railway Finance Corporation
N. Rao
Limited and RailTel Corporation of India Limited.
As Director - DFS, he was instrumental in the launch and Nirupama Rao (74), DIN: 06954879, was appointed
execution of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. He has as an Independent Director on the Board of ITC
also handled the IT Project of the Department of Posts, effective April 8, 2016.
Ministry of Communications, as Deputy Director General.
A Post Graduate in English Literature, she is also a
He is a Member of the Body of Persons / Administrator
Fellow - Harvard University, Fellow - Brown University,
of SUUTI.
Jawaharlal Nehru Fellow, and a recipient of the Degree of
Other Directorships
Doctor of Letters (Honoris Causa) from the Pondicherry
Name of the entity Position University. She was conferred with the Vanitha Ratna
by the Government of Kerala in 2016. She is a Global
Indian Bank # Nominee Director
Fellow of The Wilson Center in Washington, D.C.,
Committee Membership of other entities: Nil Council Member of the World Refugee & Migration
Council, Council Member & Court Member of the
Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, and an Advisor to
the Board of US-India Business Council. She is also a
S. Panray
Member of the Council of Management and Society of the
Sunil Panray (67), DIN: 09251023, was appointed
National Institute of Advanced Studies as well as
as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of ITC effective
of the Board of Governors of the Indian Council for
August 11, 2021, as a representative of Tobacco
Research on International Economic Relations, besides
Manufacturers (India) Limited (‘TMI’), a subsidiary of
being a Founder Trustee of The South Asian Symphony
British American Tobacco p.l.c. (‘BAT’).
Foundation, Bengaluru.
Panray holds Degrees of Bachelors in Commerce and
A career diplomat from the Indian Foreign Service
Masters in Business Administration from Concordia
from 1973 to 2011, she served the Government in
University in Montreal, Canada. He is a retired
several important positions including that of the Foreign
senior executive. He started his professional journey as a
Secretary of India. She has represented India in several
Senior Auditor and Financial Consultant with Raymond
countries during her distinguished career and was the first
Chabot Grant Thornton, Canada, and has held senior
Indian woman to be appointed High Commissioner to
leadership positions at Imasco Limited, Imperial Tobacco,
Canada, and BAT. He has also served as the Sri Lanka and Ambassador to China. She was also the first
Vice President - Finance and Treasurer of Canadian woman spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs.
National Railway Company, the largest transcontinental After her retirement, she was appointed Ambassador of
public railway transportation company in Canada, from India to the United States for a period of two years from
2012 to 2016. During his professional career, he has 2011 to 2013.
ITC Limited 9
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025