[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 134-136

[PAGE 134]
Report of the Board of Directors
also reviewed the performance of the Chairman, other The Company maintains necessary cost records
non-Independent Directors and the Board, pursuant as specified by the Central Government under
to Schedule IV to the Act and Regulation 25 of the Section 148(1) of the Act read with the Companies
Listing Regulations. (Cost Records and Audit) Rules, 2014.
KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL Secretarial Auditors
During the year, there were no changes in the Messrs. S. N. Ananthasubramanian & Co., Company
Key Managerial Personnel of your Company. Secretaries (‘SNA’), were appointed by the Board
as the Secretarial Auditors of your Company to
AUDIT COMMITTEE & AUDITORS conduct secretarial audit for the financial year ended
31st March, 2025.
The composition of the Audit Committee is provided under
the section ‘Board of Directors and Committees’ in the The Report of the Secretarial Auditors, pursuant to
Report and Accounts. Section 204 of the Act, is provided in the Annexure
forming part of this Report. The Secretarial Auditors
Statutory Auditors
have confirmed that the Company has complied with the
Messrs. S R B C & CO LLP, Chartered Accountants applicable laws and that there are adequate systems and
(‘SRBC’), were re-appointed with your approval as processes in the Company commensurate with its size
the Auditors of your Company for a period of five and scale of operations to monitor and ensure compliance
years till the conclusion of the 118th AGM. The Board, with the applicable laws.
on the recommendation of the Audit Committee,
The Board has approved, on the recommendation of
has recommended for the approval of the Members,
the Audit Committee and subject to the approval of the
the remuneration of SRBC for the financial year
Members, appointment of SNA as the Secretarial Auditors
2025-26. Appropriate resolution seeking your approval
of your Company to conduct secretarial audit for a period
to the remuneration of SRBC is appearing in the of five financial years commencing from the financial year
Notice convening the 114th AGM of your Company. 2025-26. Appropriate resolution seeking your approval
to the appointment of SNA is appearing in the Notice
Cost Auditors
convening the 114th AGM of your Company.
Your Board, as recommended by the Audit Committee,
CHANGES IN SHARE CAPITAL
appointed the following Cost Auditors for the
financial year 2025-26: During the year, 2,93,98,310 Ordinary Shares of ` 1/-
each, fully paid-up, were issued and allotted upon exercise
(i) Messrs. ABK & Associates, Cost Accountants, for
of 29,39,831 Options under the Company’s Employee
audit of Cost Records maintained by your Company
Stock Option Schemes. Consequently, the Issued and
in respect of ‘Wood Pulp’ and ‘Paper and Paperboard’
Subscribed Share Capital of your Company, as on
products.
31st March, 2025, stands increased to ` 1251,41,19,781/-
(ii) Messrs. S. Mahadevan & Co., Cost Accountants,
divided into 1251,41,19,781 Ordinary Shares of
for audit of Cost Records maintained in respect of
` 1/- each. The Ordinary Shares issued during the
all applicable products of your Company, other than
year rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary Shares
‘Wood Pulp’ and ‘Paper and Paperboard’ products.
of the Company.
Pursuant to Section 148 of the Act read with the
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEMES
Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, appropriate
resolutions seeking your ratification to the remuneration Disclosures with respect to Stock Options, as required
of the aforesaid Cost Auditors are appearing in the under Regulation 14 of the Securities and Exchange
Notice convening the 114th AGM of your Company. Board of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and
116 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 135]
Report of the Board of Directors
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021 (‘the Regulations’), the prescribed details of related party transactions of your
are available in the Notes to the Financial Statements Company in Form No. AOC – 2, in terms of Section 134
of the Company. The said disclosures forming part of of the Act read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts)
the Financial Statements can also be accessed on the Rules, 2014 are given in the Annexure to this Report.
Company’s corporate website http://www.itcportal.com
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
under the section ‘Investor Relations’. During the year,
there has been no change in the Company’s Employee As required under Section 134 of the Companies Act,
Stock Option Schemes. 2013, your Directors confirm having:
The Secretarial Auditors have certified that the Employee a) followed in the preparation of the Annual Accounts,
Stock Option Schemes of the Company have been the applicable accounting standards with proper
implemented in accordance with the Regulations and the explanation relating to material departures, if any;
resolutions passed by the Members in this regard.
b) selected such accounting policies and applied them
consistently and made judgements and estimates
INVESTOR SERVICE CENTRE
that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true
The Investor Service Centre of the Company (‘ISC’) and fair view of the state of affairs of your Company
provides in-house share registration and related services at the end of the financial year and of the profit of
to the shareholders and investors. By consistently your Company for that period;
adapting to emerging trends and leveraging digital
c) taken proper and sufficient care for the maintenance
technologies, ISC remains steadfast in its commitment
of adequate accounting records in accordance
to delivering best-in-class services to the shareholders
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013
and investors, while ensuring compliance with the
for safeguarding the assets of your Company
applicable statutory requirements. ISC is accredited with
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other
ISO 9001:2015 certification and is also registered with the
irregularities;
Securities and Exchange Board of India as a Category II
Share Transfer Agent. d) prepared the Annual Accounts on a going concern
basis;
The ‘Investor Relations’ section on the Company’s
corporate website http://www.itcportal.com serves e) laid down internal financial controls to be followed
by your Company and that such internal financial
as a user-friendly online resource for shareholders
controls were adequate and were operating
and investors, offering comprehensive guidance on
effectively; and
share-related matters. Additionally, shareholders
at their convenience can access a range of share- f) devised proper systems to ensure compliance with
related services through the dedicated service portal at the provisions of all applicable laws and that such
https://eform.itcportal.com . systems were adequate and operating effectively.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
All contracts or arrangements entered into by your Your Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
Company with its related parties during the financial year preparation of the consolidated financial statements of your
were in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Company and its Subsidiaries (‘the Group’), Associates
Act, 2013 and the Listing Regulations. All such contracts and Joint Venture entities, in terms of the requirements
or arrangements were approved by the Audit Committee. of the Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and in accordance
No material contracts or arrangements with related with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,
parties within the purview of Section 188(1) of the Act including the Indian Accounting Standards specified under
were entered into during the year under review. Further, Section 133 of the Act.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 117

[PAGE 136]
Report of the Board of Directors
The respective Boards of Directors of the companies Particulars relating to Conservation of Energy and
included in the Group and of its associates and joint venture Technology Absorption
entities are responsible for maintenance of adequate
Particulars as required under Section 134 of the
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 relating to Conservation of Energy
the Act for safeguarding the assets of each company and and Technology Absorption are also provided in the
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; Annexure to this Report.
the selection and application of appropriate accounting
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
policies; making judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation The Company is in compliance with the applicable
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy Secretaries of India and approved by the Central
Government under Section 118(10) of the Act.
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant
to the preparation and presentation of the financial
Employees
statements that give a true and fair view and are free
The total number of employees as on 31st March, 2025
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
stood at 22,041.
Such financial statements have been used for the purpose
of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by The information required under Section 197(12) of the
the Board of Directors of your Company, as aforestated. Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
OTHER INFORMATION Rules, 2014 is provided in the Annexure forming
part of this Report.
Compliance with the conditions of Corporate
Governance The statement containing particulars of employees
as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies
The certificate from the Company’s Statutory Auditors,
Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies
Messrs. S R B C & CO LLP, confirming compliance with
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated
Personnel) Rules, 2014, forming part of this Report,
under the Listing Regulations, is annexed. is available on the Company’s corporate website
www.itcportal.com .
Going Concern status
Dividend Distribution Policy
There was no significant or material order passed during
the year by any regulator, court or tribunal impacting The Dividend Distribution Policy of your Company
the going concern status of your Company or its future may be accessed on its corporate website at
https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/dividend-
operations.
distribution-policy.pdf .
Annual Return
Key Financial Ratios
The Annual Return of your Company is available on its corporate
Key Financial Ratios for the financial year ended
website at https://www.itcportal.com/investor/disclosures-
31st March, 2025, are provided in the Annexure forming
under-SEBI.aspx .
part of this Report.
Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Details of loans and investments covered under the
This Report contains forward-looking statements that
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 are involve risks and uncertainties. When used in this
provided in Notes 4, 5, and 9 to the Financial Statements. Report, the words ‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘estimate’,
No guarantees were outstanding as at the year end. ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’ and other similar expressions
118 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025