[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 23-25

[PAGE 23]
Your Directors
H. Bhargava Committee Membership of other entities (Contd.)
Name of the entity Committee Position
Hemant Bhargava (65), DIN: 01922717, was appointed
as an Independent Director on the Board of ITC UGRO Capital Limited Audit Committee Chairperson
effective December 20, 2021. Nomination and Member
Remuneration
Bhargava holds a Post Graduate Degree in Economics
Committee
from Lucknow University and has also completed
Masters in Financial Management from the Jamnalal Bajaj
Institute of Management Studies. He began his career
A. M. Bharucha
in 1981 with the Life Insurance Corporation of India (‘LIC’)
Alka Marezban Bharucha (68), DIN: 00114067, joined
as its youngest Direct Recruit Officer and rose
the ITC Board as an Independent Director effective
through the ranks to become the Chairman-in-charge and
August 12, 2023.
Managing Director of LIC in January 2019. In the same year,
A Senior Partner at Messrs. Bharucha & Partners,
he was also appointed as the Non-Executive Chairman
Advocates & Solicitors, Mumbai, she chairs the
of IDBI Bank Limited and LIC Housing Finance Limited.
Transactions Practice and her core areas of legal
During his career of 38 years, he has held a wide range of
expertise include mergers & acquisitions, joint ventures,
leadership roles both in India and overseas, gaining
private equity and banking & finance. She completed her
extensive experience across Marketing, International
B.A. (Hons.) and L.L.B. from the University of Bombay
Operations and new business ventures. He has
and Masters in Law from the University of London.
successfully led teams across the financial services
She is a Solicitor with the High Court of Mumbai and
spectrum and pioneered innovative marketing and
Supreme Court of England and Wales, and also an
sales campaigns. He also served on the Board of the
Advocate on Record with the Supreme Court of India.
Company from July 2018 to August 2021.
She began her career with Mulla & Mulla and
Other Directorships Craigie Blunt & Caroe and joined Amarchand &
Mangaldas as a Partner in 1992. In 2008, she co-founded
Name of the entity Position
Bharucha & Partners, which in the past has been
SMC Global Securities Independent Director ranked by RSG Consulting, London, amongst the top
Limited #
law firms in India. With over 30 years of experience,
UGRO Capital Limited # Independent Director she has been ranked by Chambers Global, Legal 500
and Who’s Who Legal amongst India’s leading lawyers.
Wealth Company Asset Independent Director
Other Directorships
Management Holdings Private
Limited Name of the entity Position
Providence Life Limited, PCC, Non-Executive Director UltraTech Cement Limited # Independent Director
Mauritius *
Hindalco Industries Limited # Independent Director
Committee Membership of other entities
Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance Independent Director
Company Limited #
Name of the entity Committee Position
Orient Electric Limited # Independent Director
SMC Global Securities Audit Committee Member
Limited The India Cements Limited # Independent Director
ITC Limited 5
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 24]
Your Directors
Committee Membership of other entities Mishra is a retired IAS Officer with administrative experience
of nearly 38 years. He joined the Indian Administrative
Name of the entity Committee Position
Service in 1983 and during his long public service, he
has served as an administrator, policy-maker and climate
UltraTech Cement Nomination, Chairperson
change strategist holding a wide range of assignments
Limited Remuneration and
Compensation in the fields of environment, health, education, industry
Committee and power. As Secretary of the Ministry of Environment,
Forest and Climate Change, Government of India (‘GoI’),
Audit Committee Member he spearheaded the Indian efforts for addressing climate
change issues and policy interventions in matters relating
Aditya Birla Sun Life Audit Committee Member
to pollution & air quality. He led India’s negotiations at
Insurance Company
important forums such as United Nations Framework
Nomination and Member
Limited
Convention on Climate Change - COP (Conference of the
Remuneration
Parties) for dealing with climate change, and was also
Committee
instrumental in formulating two large programmes
Orient Electric Limited Stakeholders Chairperson viz., National Clean Air Programme and India Cooling
Relationship Action Plan. Prior to this, he was the Secretary of the
Committee Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, GoI, and also held
additional charge of the Ministry of Ayush for some time,
Nomination and Chairperson
where he led one of the largest public health programmes
Remuneration
globally viz., National Health Mission. He also led
Committee
Mission Indradhanush and several other national
programmes including the National Health Policy.
Audit Committee Member
He is involved with various international organisations
The India Cements Audit Committee Chairperson and multinational companies addressing health and
Limited climate change issues, including as Member
Nomination and Member
of the Senior Advisory Board of Exemplars in
Remuneration
Global Health of Gates Ventures and Advisor to the
Committee
Rockefeller Foundation.
Other Directorships
Name of the entity Position
Shriram General Insurance Chairperson &
C. K. Mishra
Company Limited Independent Director
Chandra Kishore Mishra (65), DIN: 02553126, was Balrampur Chini Mills Limited # Independent Director
appointed as an Independent Director on the ITC Board Borosil Scientific Limited # Independent Director
effective September 14, 2024. IPE Global Limited Non-Executive Director
A Graduate in History from St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, Raigad Pen Growth Centre Non-Executive Director
Limited
and Post Graduate Diploma holder in Media Law from
the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research DCDC Health Services Private Non-Executive Director
Limited
(NALSAR), Hyderabad, Mishra has also completed
Advanced Leadership Programme from Australia and Meradoc Healthtech Private Non-Executive Director
Limited
New Zealand School of Government, Australia.
6 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 25]
Your Directors
Committee Membership of other entities Other Directorships
Name of the entity Committee Position
Name of the entity Position
Shriram General Nomination and Member
Life Insurance Corporation Chief Executive Officer &
Insurance Company Remuneration
of India # Managing Director
Limited Committee
Corporate Social Member LIC Housing Finance Chairperson &
Responsibility Limited # Nominee Director
Committee
LIC Cards Services Chairperson &
Balrampur Chini Mills Audit Committee Member
Limited Non-Executive Director
Limited
Borosil Scientific Audit Committee Member LIC Mutual Fund Asset Chairperson &
Limited Management Limited Non-Executive Director
LIC Pension Fund Limited Chairperson &
Non-Executive Director
S. Mohanty
Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
Siddhartha Mohanty (61), DIN: 08058830, was appointed
(International) B.S.C (c), Non-Executive Director
as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of ITC effective
Bahrain *
January 1, 2025, representing LIC.
Mohanty is a Post Graduate in Political Science with a Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
Bachelors Degree in Law and Post Graduate Certification (Nepal) Limited * Non-Executive Director
in Business Management.
Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
Mohanty retired as the Chief Executive Officer and
(Lanka) Limited * Non-Executive Director
Managing Director of LIC on June 7, 2025. During
his career at LIC spanning nearly four decades, he
Life Insurance Corporation Chairperson &
has gained multi-dimensional experience across
(Singapore) Pte. Limited * Non-Executive Director
all domains of life insurance covering Marketing,
Human Resources, Legal and Investments. He has held Larsen & Toubro Limited # Nominee Director
various important positions in LIC, including tenures
Kenindia Assurance Non-Executive Director
as Senior Divisional Manager in-charge of Raipur and
Company Limited, Kenya *
Cuttack Divisions, Regional Head of a marketing vertical
in the Western Zone, Chief of Investments (Back Office),
Committee Membership of other entities
Executive Director (Legal) and Managing Director &
Chief Executive Officer of LIC Housing Finance Limited.
Name of the entity Committee Position
He was also designated as the Chairperson of LIC from
April 2023 to June 2024. Life Insurance Nomination and Member
Corporation of India Remuneration
Mohanty served as the Chairperson of the Council for
Committee
Insurance Ombudsmen, President of the Insurance
Institute of India, Chairman of the Governing Board of
Larsen & Toubro Stakeholders Member
the National Insurance Academy, Pune, Chairman of the
Limited Relationship
Executive Committee of the Life Insurance Council, and
Committee
a Council Member of the Institute of Actuaries of India.
ITC Limited 7
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025