[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 79-81

[PAGE 79]
Report of the Board of Directors
Award. Further, the Haridwar Unit was also felicitated with witness encouraging consumer response driven by wide
the CII Quality Circle Competition Winner Award in the range of offerings that enable ‘Do It Yourself’ activities,
Northern Region. immersive technologies such as augmented reality and
playful covers.
The Business, with its purpose-led brands serving
discerning consumers in a dynamically evolving The Writing Instruments portfolio is being further
environment, is well poised to seize future opportunities strengthened through superior writing systems and
on the back of innovations, impactful communications, product designs, enhancing differentiation through
institutional R&D strength & formulations, state-of-the-art strategic tie-ups and by expanding the portfolio with
manufacturing, packaging know-how and multi-channel innovative launches, bringing playfulness around the
distribution. brand proposition of ‘Enjoy Learning’. To further strengthen
the premium portfolio, the Business introduced a set of
Education and Stationery Products revamped designs elevated by premium finishes and
aesthetics under its range of Mathematical Instruments.
The Education and Stationery Products industry witnessed
heightened competitive intensity with the widespread ‘Classmate All Rounder’, an inter-school initiative to
resurgence of regional players on the back of sharp promote holistic learning in line with the National Education
moderation in input prices, accentuated by cheap imports Policy 2020, continued to gain strong momentum in
of paper. Against this challenging operating environment, its third edition, with participation from top schools
the Business delivered a resilient performance with the across the country. The initiative has engaged nearly
flagship brand ‘Classmate’ sustaining its market leadership one million students across 33 cities since inception.
position in the Notebooks segment. The Business
The multi-channel capability of your Company’s strong
continues to leverage your Company’s institutional
distribution network was leveraged to enhance availability
strengths which provide unique sources of competitive
and drive sales. The Business sustained its leadership
advantage such as paper manufacturing expertise
position on e-Commerce platforms through consistent
including the capabilities of your Company’s Life Sciences
availability of a wide assortment of products, backed by
and Technology Centre to enhance product superiority &
focused interventions to enhance consumer traction.
differentiation in the core notebooks category and drive
Consumer engagement was further augmented through
premiumisation, multi-channel distribution infrastructure
Classmateshop.com, a D2C platform that provides
and brand building expertise.
consumers the opportunity to ‘Personalise & Capture’
In keeping with its proposition of ‘Enjoy Learning’, memories on Classmate notebooks. The myClassmate app,
a gamified app focused on developing co–curricular skills
the Classmate brand continues to provide differentiated
and make learning engaging and enjoyable, has garnered
offerings through technology via eduGAMES Infinity,
nearly 2.5 million downloads.
that provides students the opportunity to play and learn
new skills. During the year, the Business accelerated Equipped with state-of-the-art technology and a newly
the adoption of ‘Classmate Pulse’ through targeted installed quality lab, the dedicated manufacturing
activations focused on new consumer cohorts and also facility at Vijayawada is enabling the Business develop
strengthened the ‘Paperkraft’ portfolio with the launch of differentiated notebook formats, drive cost reduction
a new range of notebooks with discrete design themes. and enhance capabilities to exploit opportunities in
The ‘Classmate Interaktiv’ Notebook portfolio continues to overseas markets.
In keeping with its proposition of ‘Enjoy Learning’,
the Classmate brand continues to provide differentiated offerings
through technology via eduGAMES Infinity, that provides students
the opportunity to play and learn new skills.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 61

[PAGE 80]
Report of the Board of Directors
The Classmate and Paperkraft range of notebooks a powerful chord with consumers across the country.
leverage your Company’s world-class fibre line at The campaign was completed by targeted marketing
Bhadrachalam - India’s first ozone treated elemental interventions across channels, further deepening
chlorine free facility - and embody the environmental Mangaldeep’s spiritual connect.
capital built by your Company in its paper business.
Responding to evolving consumer preferences, the
The Business also continues to scale-up the
Business expanded its product portfolio through several
®
Paperkraft range (FSC -C181115) of notebooks using
impactful launches. Notably, the new sub-brand ‘Fusion’
® ®
Forest Stewardship Council (FSC ) certified paper
was introduced with contemporary fragrances such as
®
(FSC -C064218), made at your Company’s paper mill
Sambrani & Oud, Sandal & Vetiver and Lavender & Sage
at Bhadrachalam.
each blending traditional aroma with a modern twist.
With over 300 million students, India has one of the largest The ‘Scent’ sub-brand was also extended with new
education systems in the world. The Indian Education offerings in premium dry dhoop sticks and cones, delivering
and Stationery Products industry holds immense potential ‘perfume like’ experiences true to its positioning.
driven by growing literacy, increasing enrolment ratios,
Catering to the emerging wellness segment, the Business
the Government’s continued thrust on the education
launched ‘Pranah’, a premium range inspired by
sector and a favourable demographic profile of the
earth-sourced aromatherapy. This included scented
country’s population. Your Company’s Education and
candles, incense sticks, and cones, harmonising natural
Stationery Products Business, with its strong brands,
inspiration with scientific wellness benefits.
robust product portfolio, collaborative linkages with
To further strengthen consumer engagement, the brand
small & medium enterprises and superior distribution
undertook large-scale on-ground activations during
network, is well poised to sustain its leadership position
the Maha Kumbh Mela in Prayagraj. These included
in the industry.
immersive spiritual experiences, participation in sacred
Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) and Safety Matches rituals, and bhajan evenings. The Jalbatti initiative — a
symbolic and sustainable ceremonial offering — added
The Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) category witnessed
a powerful dimension to consumer connection and
robust growth during the year with your Company’s
received extensive media coverage. On the digital front,
flagship brand ‘Mangaldeep’ further strengthening its
augmented reality-based experiences brought the sanctity
market standing across formats including Agarbattis,
of Kumbh into homes, further enhancing brand resonance.
Dhoop and Sambrani. Anchored in deep consumer
insights and spiritual relevance, Mangaldeep offers a The Mangaldeep mobile app was also relaunched with a
unique product experience that combines traditional modernised, intuitive user interface. Redesigned with
devotional appeal with modern sensibilities. The Business Watch, Read & Listen content streams, gamified elements
successfully navigated an inflationary cost environment and improved navigation, the app reinforces Mangaldeep’s
through judicious mix enhancement and strategic ambition of being a holistic spiritual companion.
cost optimisation, thereby sustaining profitability and
In a pioneering step towards inclusive innovation,
volume growth.
Mangaldeep continues to collaborate with over
The Brands visibility and engagement were enhanced 150 visually impaired fragrance evaluators under the
through a high impact thematic campaign – Sixth Sense initiative. This unique programme empowers
“Dil Se Karo Baat, Bhagwan Ke Sath” – which struck differently-abled individuals to co-create fragrances,
The Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) category witnessed robust growth
during the year with your Company’s flagship brand ‘Mangaldeep’ further strengthening
its market standing across formats including Agarbattis, Dhoop and Sambrani.
Catering to the emerging wellness segment, the Business launched ‘Pranah’,
a premium range inspired by earth-sourced aromatherapy.
62 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 81]
Report of the Board of Directors
helping the brand deliver long-lasting and sensorially rich nature of these challenges, TM&D continues to sharpen
offerings while fostering inclusive growth. channel-specific strategies to efficiently service consumer
demand across the country. Valuable insights of consumer
Over the years, the Business has implemented several
behaviour and channel/region specific trends gained over
measures to enhance the competitiveness of the
the years continue to be leveraged to deliver superior
agarbatti value chain in India. This includes scaling up
performance in terms of product availability, visibility and
bamboo procurement through local sources, working
freshness.
closely with manufacturers and state nodal agencies to
promote bamboo plantation and indigenous bamboo The rapid growth of Modern Trade, e-Commerce and
stick manufacturing. Mangaldeep remains at the Quick-Commerce channels, coupled with the emergence
forefront of driving bamboo stick manufacturing, enabling of several new players, has necessitated the deployment
import substitution while advancing national priorities of of tailored market/outlet specific strategies to seize the
employment generation, rural livelihood enhancement, emerging opportunities. Omni-channel presence in urban
and inclusive economic growth. markets enabled accelerated growth while shopper
marketing insights and agile supply chain capabilities
In the Safety Matches industry, the Business strengthened
were leveraged to enhance operational and execution
its market leadership position by leveraging the brand
efficiencies.
‘Homelites’ – built on differentiated positioning of stronger,
longer and karborised sticks. The Business continues to The surge in internet usage, particularly through
focus on scaling up the share of value-added products smartphones, amongst convenience-seeking consumers,
in its portfolio and enhancing supply chain efficiency by widespread adoption of digital payments, wide assortment
sourcing products manufactured closer to markets. of products and faster deliveries continue to drive the
rising salience of e-Commerce and Quick Commerce
Leveraging its world-class brands and innovative &
channels. Your Company’s collaborations with leading
superior product offerings, your Company remains
e-Commerce and Quick Commerce platforms on all
confident of scaling up its Agarbattis & Safety Matches
aspects of operations viz. category development, supply
portfolio, and strengthen its position in the segment.
chain, consumer offerings and customer acquisition
TRADE MARKETING & DISTRIBUTION has enabled it to significantly scale-up sales in these
channels. This was augmented by development of
Your Company’s Trade Marketing & Distribution (TM&D)
exclusive pack assortments, channel-specific business
vertical continues to strengthen its multi-channel
plans and ‘Digital First’ brands. Joint Business Plans
go-to-market capabilities towards ensuring effective market
executed in coordination with these platforms coupled
servicing and product availability. Proactive interventions
with agile supply chain initiatives have further fortified your
continue to be made towards addressing emerging
Company’s market standing in e-Commerce and Quick
trends such as the rapid growth of new gen channels
Commerce channels. Growth in the premium portfolio
(Modern Trade, e-Commerce, Quick-Commerce) and
was accelerated through increased visibility, focus on
increasing demand for premium products.
target cohorts and jointly curated campaigning, including
The dynamic interplay of varied and evolving consumer collaborating on topical events across accounts. Digitally
preferences, multiplicity of channels including rapid enabled sales have grown rapidly in recent years and,
acceleration in new gen channels, diverse demographic together with Modern Trade, now account for 31% of your
profiles & socio-economic factors, and a vast geographical Company’s FMCG 7 portfolio (Vs. 17% in FY 2019-20).
landscape pose a high degree of complexity for distribution
of FMCG products in India. Recognising the multifaceted 7 Excluding Education and Stationery Products
Your Company’s Trade Marketing & Distribution (TM&D) vertical continues to strengthen
its multi-channel go-to-market capabilities towards ensuring effective market servicing
and product availability. Your Company’s collaborations with leading e-Commerce and
Quick Commerce platforms on all aspects of operations viz. category development,
supply chain, consumer offerings and customer acquisition has enabled
it to significantly scale-up sales in these channels.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 63