[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 10-12

[PAGE 10]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
Value-added Agri Products
To accelerate
growth in its
Agri Business, ITC
continues to scale
up its Value-added
Agri Portfolio
straddling multiple
value chains.
Value-added Paperboards
ITC has strengthened its
leadership position in the
Value-added Paperboards
segment by developing
customised solutions for
end-use industries.
viii

[PAGE 11]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
Driving Purposeful Innovation:
ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre
ITC's Life Sciences & Technology
Centre (LSTC) is at the centre of
driving innovation in emerging
areas important for the future to
strengthen the competitiveness
of ITC's businesses and brands.
ITC-LSTC's Centres of Excellence
in Biosciences, Agri-sciences
and Materials, and robust
research platforms for Beauty &
Hygiene, Health & Wellness,
Agro-forestry & Crop Sciences
and Sustainable Packaging
Materials drive world-class
innovations.
ITC: Nurturing Talent
ITC places strong emphasis on nurturing future-ready, world-class talent with a growth mindset. ITC's diverse pool
of professional entrepreneurs, or ‘proneurs’, has the unique opportunity to nurture categories, products and
brands from ideation to execution, akin to a startup, while being backed by the scale and institutional strengths of a
diversified enterprise.
ix

[PAGE 12]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
ITC's Recent Value-accretive Acquisitions
ITC is pursuing value-accretive acquisitions to build a portfolio aligned with the evolving consumer needs and
business landscape. The emphasis is on opportunities that offer a strong strategic fit, complement existing portfolios
and present significant headroom for growth. The acquisitions focus on categories where ITC has a clear right to win,
leveraging its enterprise strengths.
24 Mantra Organic
Scaling up ITC's
presence in the fast-
growing natural and
organic foods space.
Prasuma
Building a full-stack Frozen, Chilled and Ready to Cook Foods Portfolio.
x