[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 114-116

[PAGE 114]
Report of the Board of Directors
Towards Water Security for All Tamil Nadu (Upper Bhawani basin) and Telangana
(Murreru basin), water positive status was achieved in all
With water scarcity increasingly becoming an area of
the basins by end of the year as against water deficit
global and national concern, your Company continues
estimated in the baseline studies. In South Pennar river
to focus on an integrated water management approach
basin of Karnataka, work has been initiated in the field,
that includes water conservation and harvesting initiatives
basis the recommendations from the river basin study
at its units – while at the same time working towards
done by Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru.
meeting the water security needs of all stakeholders at
This is being pursued through a Public Private Partnership
the local watershed level. Several interventions have
with Karnataka Government and Vyakti Vikas Kendra for
been rolled out to improve water-use efficiencies such
restoring the water bodies in the river basin.
as adopting latest technologies and increasing reuse and
recycling practices within the fence while also working Considering the increasing water stress in urban
with farmers and other community members towards catchments, your Company is implementing water security
improving water-use efficiencies. programmes in Bengaluru and Chennai catchments.
Demand side management is a critical component These programmes focus on restoring urban water
of your Company’s Water Stewardship programme. bodies as well as tanks and their connectors, groundwater
Recognising the critical imperative of reducing water recharge and promotion of roof water harvesting and
use, especially in agriculture, your Company continues usage of water efficient taps. These measures are aimed
to work with farmers to achieve ‘more crop per drop’ and at addressing challenges of groundwater depletion
improve farmer incomes. Over 18 lakh acres have been and also mitigating risks arising out of flooding during
covered during the year across 12 states through micro heavy rains.
irrigation technologies and crop-specific agronomical
Your Company also conducts efficacy studies to assess
practices. Basis parameters established earlier, there
the impact of the watershed work carried out, and to
has been potential water savings of over 1,400 million kl
ensure that maximum benefits accrue in the long-term.
during the year. These interventions are spread across
As on 31st March, 2025, your Company’s integrated
15 crops including four key agri value chains – wheat,
watershed development projects covering over 1.8 million
tobacco, pulpwood and spices, and result in water savings
acres of land have created a total rainwater harvesting
up to 50% as compared to conventional practices.
potential of over 59.90 million kl. In total, over
The water-use efficient practices promoted also help in
60 million kl of rainwater has been harvested, including
reducing GHG emissions as compared to the conventional
within the fence, which is over five times the net
practices followed.
water consumed by your Company’s operations in
The demand side measures are implemented along with FY 2024-25. With this, your Company has achieved
augmenting supply at the sub-catchment level through its 2030 Sustainability 2.0 target of creating rainwater
various interventions of rainwater harvesting based on the harvesting potential equivalent to over five times the net
recommendations of hydro-geological studies. The supply water consumption.
side interventions include enhancing capture and storage
In addition, your Company is spearheading the
of rainwater (within soil surface and storage structures)
implementation of Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS)
and recharging aquifers. In the process, traditional
Standard which is a credible, globally applicable and
water bodies are restored and wetland eco-systems are
recognised framework for ensuring sustainable water
conserved. To have a long-lasting impact and balance
management within the wider water catchment context.
out the competing demands on water resources, your
Company has also extended work to river basin level During the year, two units of your Company i.e., Paper
in water stressed catchments. Based on the work done unit at Bhadrachalam and Branded Packaged Foods
by your Company in four river basins viz. Maharashtra unit at Kapurthala, received the AWS Platinum level
(Ghod basin), Madhya Pradesh (Kolans basin), certification, the highest recognition for water stewardship
96 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 115]
Report of the Board of Directors
awarded by AWS. Till date, nine units of your Company Your Company aims to go beyond the requirements of
have achieved Platinum level certification under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2022 to ensure that
AWS Standard, thereby exceeding the commitment of over the next decade, 100% of packaging is reusable,
getting eight sites certified by 2024. recyclable or compostable/biodegradable. Your Company
is working towards optimising packaging in a way
Pioneering the Green Building Movement in India
that reduces the environmental impact arising out of
In order to continuously reduce your Company’s energy post-consumer packaging waste without affecting product
footprint, green features are being integrated in all new integrity. This is being addressed in a comprehensive
and old constructions including manufacturing units, manner by optimising packaging design, introducing
warehouses and office complexes. Your Company is a recycled content in packaging, identifying alternative
pioneer in the green building movement, with 17 buildings
packaging material with lower environmental impact and
having received Platinum certification by USGBC
supporting development of suitable end-of-life solutions
(US Green Building Council)/IGBC (Indian Green
for packaging waste.
Building Council).
Your Company has successfully implemented multiple
Several of your Company’s factories and office complexes
large-scale models of solid waste management across
have received the Green Building certification from IGBC
the country. These models, based on principles of circular
and the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design
economy, are scalable, replicable and sustainable, and
®
(LEED ) certification from USGBC. The data centre at
have enabled your Company to sustain its plastic neutral
Bengaluru, ITC Sankhya, is the first data centre in the
status since FY 2021-22. The approach is centred around
®
world to receive the LEED Platinum certification by
treating waste as a resource and ensuring that minimal
USGBC. Large infrastructure investments such as the
waste goes to landfill, which can be achieved only when
ITC Green Centre at Guntur and the ITC Green Centre
® waste is segregated at source. The initiatives focus on
at Bengaluru (both LEED Platinum certified) continue
educating citizens on segregating waste at source into
to demonstrate your Company’s commitment to green
dry & wet streams and ensuring that value is derived from
buildings. Virginia House, Kolkata and ITC Centre,
these resources and in the process, support sustainable
Kolkata – the headquarters of your Company, are
® livelihood for waste collectors. These models operate on a
also certified at the highest ‘LEED Platinum ’ rated
Green Building by USGBC. public-private partnership basis, with active involvement of
Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), civil society and the informal
Enabling a Circular Economy sector of waste collectors.
Your Company continues to make significant progress in Your Company has exceeded its commitment on plastic
improving the circularity of waste generated in operations. neutrality for the third consecutive year by collecting
The focus is on reducing waste through constant monitoring,
and sustainably managing 76,000 tonnes of plastic
improvement of efficiencies in material utilisation and
waste, which is more than the plastic packaging utilised
adequate waste segregation thereby improving recycling
by your Company. Your Company has been obtaining
rates. During the year, your Company achieved over 99%
independent third-party assurance of its plastic neutrality
recycling of waste generated in course of its operations.
status since FY 2022-23.
This has prevented waste from reaching landfills, with the
Your Company’s waste recycling programme,
associated problems of soil & groundwater contamination
and GHG emissions, all of which can adversely impact ‘WOW – Well-Being Out of Waste’, enables the creation
public health. In addition, your Company’s Paperboards & of a clean & green environment and promotes sustainable
Specialty Papers Business recycled nearly 85,000 tonnes livelihoods for waste collectors. During the year, the
of externally sourced post-consumer waste paper, thereby programme continued to be executed in Bengaluru,
creating yet another positive environmental footprint. Mysuru, Hyderabad, Coimbatore, Chennai, Delhi,
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 97

[PAGE 116]
Report of the Board of Directors
Dindigul, major towns of Telangana and several districts of As liquid waste is emerging as a growing challenge
Andhra Pradesh. The quantum of dry waste collected during especially in rural areas, during the year, your Company
the year was about 67,100 MT from over 1,760 wards. has also initiated pilots of different decentralised solutions
The programme has covered over 2.9 crore citizens in over like soak pits, in line treatment, waste stabilisation ponds
72 lakh households, 71 lakh school children and around and vertical filters in nine States.
2,240 corporates since its inception. It has promoted
Your Company’s partnership with Uttar Pradesh
sustainable livelihood for over 17,900 waste collectors by
Urban Development Department (UDD) is enabling
facilitating an effective collection system in collaboration
implementation of SWM programme in 85 ULBs
with Municipal Corporations. The intervention has
across 75 districts of the State, reaching out to over
also created over 150 social entrepreneurs who are
49 lakh households till date. Your Company’s
involved in optimising value capture from the collected
partnership with Lohiya Swachh Bihar Abhiyan (LSBA),
dry waste. Rural Development Department, Government of Bihar
continued to promote decentralised SWM in 456 villages
Your Company, in partnership with Kashtakari Panchayat
of Ganga region (‘Ganga Gram’) across 12 districts of
and SWaCH Pune, runs an inclusive and decentralised
Bihar. During the year, refresher training and handholding
waste management model in Pune to specifically focus on
support was provided to 3,100 Panchayat officials of these
collection and recycling of low value Multi-Layered Plastic
456 Ganga Gram villages through a cascade approach,
(MLP) packaging. Through a mobile collection system
who then initiated focused waste management activities
operating across 12 city wards and the Pune Cantonment
in their villages and covered over 4.6 lakh households.
Board, over 750 waste pickers collect MLP waste daily,
receiving direct payments. The initiative processes Your Company had also collaborated with Department
over 130 MT of flexible plastics monthly, and has of Drinking Water and Sanitation (DDWS), Government
cumulatively recycled nearly 4,100 MT since 2019. of India, and India Sanitation Coalition (ISC), FICCI, to
The program not only boosts incomes for informal workers develop 36 Gram Panchayats (GPs) across 10 states as
(contributing to ~12–15% of their earnings) but also Lighthouses, demonstrating best practices in sanitation
provides formal employment to 43 individuals, showcasing and waste management, which will be adopted by other
a replicable model that combines environmental GPs gradually. The partnership is part of the DDWS’s plan
stewardship with social equity. of creating 75 Lighthouse Gram Panchayats across India.
Till March 2025, of the 36 GPs, 28 GPs were declared
Further, a separate community-driven programme on
Model by Government, with the balance 8 GPs on track to
decentralised Solid Waste Management (SWM), including
become Model in the coming months.
closed loop Green Temple programme in collaboration
with Swachh Bharat Mission, is operational in 34 districts Your Company’s approach of involving Self Help Groups
across 12 states covering about 24.62 lakh additional (SHGs) as service providers for Gram Panchayats in
households during the year, taking the cumulative SWM and the use of Swachhata Mitra App for monitoring
coverage to nearly 75.21 lakh households. This programme waste management in partnership with Bihar Government
has got high appreciation as best practices.
deals with both wet and dry waste and focuses on
minimising waste to landfill by managing waste at source. Your Company’s ‘YiPPee! Better World programme’ is
Under the programme, more than 6.7 lakh MT of waste aimed at creating awareness about plastic waste and
was collected during FY 2024-25, out of which around ways to reduce, recycle and reuse it among students.
4.2 lakh MT of wet waste was composted, and During the year, the intervention reached out to 14 lakh
1.8 lakh MT of dry waste recycled, and thus 87% of the children across 4,175 schools. This programme along
total waste was avoided from being sent to landfills. with Company’s Social Investments Programme has
Further, home composting was practiced by over provided schools with over 1,850 benches and tables and
1.93 lakh households (8.3 lakh households till date). 350 sports kits made from recycled plastic.
98 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025