[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 142-144

[PAGE 142]
Institutional Support: Encourage sustainable agricultural practices through various extension platforms to
enable access to relevant farm mechanisation technologies & implements, as also institutional support
mechanisms and linkages to government schemes, especially for small farm holdings, in order to enhance
farm productivity and farm-based incomes.
ix. Disaster Assistance (Schedule VII – xii):
Provide relief especially to the poor and vulnerable sections of society who face severe disruption to their
livelihoods in the event of disasters and calamities.
2. Composition of the CSR and Sustainability Committee as on 31st March, 2025:
Sl. Name of Director Designation / Nature of Number of Number of
No. Directorship meetings of CSR meetings of CSR
and Sustainability and Sustainability
Committee held Committee attended
during the year during the year
1. S. Puri (Chairman of the Chairman & Managing Director 3
Committee)
2. C. K. Mishra 1 Independent Director N.A.
3. S. Mohanty 2 Non-Executive Director N.A.
4. S. Mukherjee 1 Independent Director 3 N.A.
5. A. Pande 3 Non-Executive Director 1
6. S. Panray Non-Executive Director 3
7. N. Rao Independent Director 1
8. A. Singh 4 Non-Executive Director 3
1 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 27th October, 2024.
2 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 1st January, 2025.
3 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 27th July, 2024.
4 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024.
3. Provide the web-link(s) where composition of the CSR and Sustainability Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects
approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Company: https://www.itcportal.com/sustainability/corporate-
social-responsibility.aspx
4. Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of
sub-rule (3) of Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable:
Executive Summary – Impact Assessment of ITC’s CSR Programmes for the financial year 2024-25
Brief Description ITC implements its CSR Programmes across the country under a Two Horizon approach
aimed at holistic development of communities.
Thematic Areas / The specific themes covered under the Two Horizon approach include:
Programmes Horizon – I: Creating Sustainable livelihoods for today
Water Stewardship
Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA)
On-Farm Livelihood Diversification: Social Forestry
Off-Farm Livelihood Diversification: Livestock Development
Horizon – II: Creating Capabilities for Tomorrow
Support to Education
Skilling of Youth
Public Health: Sanitation and Waste Management
Public Health: Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition (MCHN)
Women Empowerment: Targeted Hardcore Poor (THP) Programme and Financial
Literacy Programme
124 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 143]
Projects Covered 60 projects having budget of more than ` 1 crore each during the financial year 2022-23
were grouped under nine thematic interventions and were then taken up for impact
assessment. The purpose of these assessments was to assess the impact of the projects
and incorporate the learnings from the findings into the programmes as relevant.
Projects Duration FY 2022-23
States The assessments covered interventions in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar,
Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab,
Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.
Impact Assessment These impact assessments were done by the following 12 external agencies selected
Agencies through competitive bidding process, and assigned specific projects / geographies for
assessment:
Blue Sky Sustainable Business, Bengaluru
Catalyst Management Services Private Limited, Bengaluru
CRISIL Limited, Mumbai
Ingrain Technologies, Hyderabad
Kantar, Bengaluru
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP, Gurugram
Renalysis Consultants Private Limited, Ahmedabad
Sambodhi Research and Communications Private Limited, Noida
SoStakes Services Private Limited, Bengaluru
Surge Impact Foundation, Hyderabad
Sutra Consulting Private Limited, Bhubaneswar
Synergy Technofin Private Limited, New Delhi
Period of Study FY 2024-25
Methodology The agencies took up studies through mixed method approach covering quantitative and
qualitative data collection. A statistically significant sample size was covered under each
project. In the aggregate, over 15,000 samples were covered across interventions and
control areas.
The major impacts recorded by the impact studies are as follows –
Horizon – I
Overall, the projects assessed under Horizon - I were found to be relevant, effective, efficient and sustainable. They
have not only contributed to higher incomes for farmers, but also enabled climate adaptation and conservation of
natural resources.
Water Stewardship:
The study conducted in Telangana revealed that access to irrigation resulted in increase in gross cropped area
by up to 8% over baseline and improved yields because of application of tank silt in field. Due to increased
availability of water, around 20% of programme farmers also engaged in fish cultivation, resulting in their earnings
increasing by over 15%.
Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA):
In Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, study revealed that compared to control, yield of Paddy and
Maize was 21% and 16% higher respectively for programme farmers, while cultivation costs was 24% less in
Paddy. Cultivation costs for Maize remained same over control.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 125

[PAGE 144]
In Telangana, study revealed that Direct Seeding of Rice (DSR) practice resulted in 21% reduction in cultivation
costs, 36% higher net income and 15% savings in water for programme farmers compared to control. 84% of
programme farmers continued DSR in the subsequent years and 70% increased the area under DSR on their own.
Social Forestry:
In Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, average plantation costs reduced by 20% as against 18% increase in case of
control, which was due to cost-effective practices including better resource management.
In Telangana, small farmer friendly agro-forestry model plantations (both trees and crops cultivated together) led to
up to 70% higher income for programme farmers over control who only grew trees.
In Odisha, 29% of the programme farmers involved in plantation earned net income of above ` 81,000/- per
household, as against 12% in control group.
Livestock Development:
In Madhya Pradesh, evaluation showed that the trainings on animal husbandry practices resulted in adoption of
proper cowsheds by 77% of programme farmers (40% in control group). Adoption of recommended practices has
led to improvement of animal health, with 88% of programme farmers reporting no health issues for their livestock
(15% in control group) and 89% programme farmers reported zero calf mortality (26% in control group). As a result,
82% of programme farmers earned above ` 7,000/- per month per household, against 34% in control group.
Horizon – II
Projects evaluated under Horizon - II were found to be of high relevance and impacting lives of children, youth, women
and communities residing in ITC catchments.
Support to Education:
Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) interventions in schools evaluated in Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra,
Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh showed improvement in handwashing stations (49% at baseline to 92%).
Safety-related upgrades included improved boundary walls (66% to 91%) and roof repairs (21% to 56%). Classrooms
in Himachal Pradesh showed reduction in chipped paint (33% to nil), and murals were there in 66%. All schools
surveyed had an active child cabinet, promoting student participation in school governance and leadership.
The Supplementary Learning Centres (SLCs) designed to improve learning outcome and mainstreaming of out of
school children into formal schooling showed strong impact. 82% of students remained enrolled for over a year, with
97% reporting daily attendance. 91% achieved the highest reading level (Story Level) against only 2% in control
group, and 67% solving division problems also against only 13% in control.
Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) intervention evaluated in Andhra Pradesh against baseline revealed
81% improvement in communicating and expressing thoughts & feelings more effectively, which previously was
limited to single words and short phrases. Sharing skills improved by 79% and cooperation skills increased by
73%, enabling children to work collaboratively towards common goals. 98% of the parents acknowledged regular
involvement in their children’s learning and development.
Primary Education programme evaluated in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Telangana showed children from the
programme group having improved reading skills (71% against 37% control); comfort with reading texts (75% against
17% control); and math problem-solving skills (66% against 47% control), attributed to personalised, engaging
educational strategies that addressed students’ individual needs.
Skilling of Youth:
Study done in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal revealed 98% of the youth
surveyed from programme group passed the third-party assessment earning certification from the National Skill
Development Cooperation. After training, 86% of the certified candidates were placed or self-employed, earning
an initial average monthly income of ` 10,105/-. Their average income rose from ` 10,105/- to ` 12,053/- over
time, demonstrating career progression and sustainable income growth post-training. The programme included 66%
female participants indicating focus on increasing women participation.
126 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025