[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 402-404

[PAGE 402]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP
Telephone: +91 124 336 9000
Building No. 10, 4th Floor, Tower-B & C
Fax: +91 124 336 9001
DLF Cyber City, Phase - II Internet: www.kpmg.com/in
Gurugram - 122 002 (India)
Independent Practitioners’ Reasonable Assurance Report
To the Board of Directors of ITC Limited
Assurance report on the select sustainability disclosures in the Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report (BRSR) of ITC Limited
Assurance report on the BRSR Core Attributes (hereafter called ‘Identified Sustainability Information’
(ISI)) in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report (BRSR)1 of ITC Limited (the ‘Company’).
The ISI is presented in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report including Exhibit-A, of the
Company for the period from 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025.
Opinion
We have performed a reasonable assurance engagement on whether the Company’s select sustainability
disclosures in BRSR Core Format (refer to Annexure-1) for the period from 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025,
have been prepared in accordance with the reporting criteria (refer table below).
Identified Period Section in the Reporting criteria
Sustainability subject to Report and
Information assurance Accounts 2025
(ISI) subject
to assurance
BRSR Core From 1 Business - Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange
Attributes April 2024 Responsibility Board of India (SEBI) Listing Obligations and
to 31 and Disclosure Requirements (SEBI LODR),
(refer
March Sustainability Regulations 2015 read with the SEBI circular dated
Annexure- 1)
2025 Report (BRSR) 12 July 2023 and master circular dated 11
section November 2024.
including the
- Guidance notes for BRSR format issued by SEBI.
Exhibit-A to the
BRSR - World Resource Institute (WRI) / World Business
Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD)
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol (A Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standards).
This engagement was conducted by a multidisciplinary team including assurance practitioners, engineers,
and environmental and social professionals.
In our opinion, the Company’s Identified Sustainability Information covered in Business Responsibility and
Sustainability Report (BRSR) section including the Exhibit-A to the BRSR, in the Report and Accounts 2025
of ITC Limited for the period from 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025 is prepared, in all material respects, in
accordance with the reporting criteria and as per the Reporting Boundary set out in Section A: General
Disclosures 13 of the BRSR.
Notified by SEBI vide Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CFD-SEC-2/P/CIR/2023/122 dated 12 July 2023, and master
Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/PoD2/CIR/P/0155 dated 11 November 2024.
LV

[PAGE 403]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
Basis for opinion
We conducted our engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements
(ISAE) 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial
Information and ISAE 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements issued by the
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Our responsibilities under those standards
are further described in the “Our responsibilities” section of this report.
We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the International Code of Ethics
for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued by the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA).
KPMG Assurance and Consulting Services LLP (the Firm) applies International Standard on Quality
Management (ISQM) 1, Quality Management for Firms that Perform Audits or Reviews of Financial
Statements, or Other Assurance or Related Services Engagements, issued by the IAASB. This standard
requires the Firm to design, implement and operate a system of quality management, including policies or
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and
regulatory requirements.
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.
Other information
Management and the Board of Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The
other information comprises the information included in the Company’s Report and Accounts 2025 (but
does not include the BRSR Core attributes including the Exhibit-A to BRSR and assurance report thereon).
The Company’s Report and Accounts 2025 is expected to be made available to us after the date of this
assurance report.
Our reasonable assurance on the BRSR Core attributes including the Exhibit-A to BRSR, does not cover the
other information and we are not expressing any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our assurance on the BRSR Core attributes including the Exhibit-A to BRSR, our
responsibility is to read the other information identified above when it becomes available, and in doing so,
consider whether other information is materially inconsistent with the BRSR Core including the Exhibit-A
to BRSR, or our knowledge obtained in the assurance, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
When we read the Report and Accounts 2025, if we conclude that there is a material misstatement therein,
we are required to communicate the matter to Those Charged With Governance and describe actions
applicable under the applicable laws and regulations.
Intended use or purpose
The ISI and our reasonable assurance report are intended for users who have reasonable knowledge of the
BRSR Core attributes including the Exhibit-A to BRSR, the reporting criteria and who have read the
information in the ISI with reasonable diligence and understand that the ISI is prepared and assured at
appropriate levels of materiality.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
LVI

[PAGE 404]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
Management’s Responsibilities for the Identified Sustainability Information (ISI)
The management of the Company acknowledges and understands their responsibility for:
• designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls relevant to the preparation of the ISI that is
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error;
• selecting or establishing suitable criteria for preparing the ISI, taking into account applicable laws and
regulations, if any, related to reporting on the ISI, identification of key aspects, engagement with
stakeholders, content, preparation and presentation of the ISI in accordance with the reporting criteria;
disclosure of the applicable criteria used for preparation of the ISI in the relevant report;
• preparing, fairly stating and properly calculating the ISI in accordance with the reporting criteria;
• ensuring the reporting criteria is available for the intended users with relevant explanations;
• establishing targets, goals and other performance measures, and implementing actions to achieve such
targets, goals and performance measures;
• providing the details of the management personnel who takes ownership of the ISI disclosed in the
report;
• ensuring compliance with law, regulation or applicable contracts;
• making judgements and estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances;
• identifying and describing any inherent limitations in the measurement or evaluation of information
covered by assurance in accordance with the reporting criteria;
• preventing and detecting fraud;
• selecting the content of the ISI, including identifying and engaging with intended users to understand
their information needs;
• informing us of other information that will be included with the ISI; and
• supervision of other staff involved in the preparation of the ISI.
Those Charged With Governance are responsible for overseeing the reporting process for the Company’s
ISI.
Inherent limitations
The preparation of the Company’s BRSR information requires the management to establish or interpret the
criteria, make determinations about the relevance of information to be included, and make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported information.
Measurement of certain amounts and BRSR Core attributes including the Exhibit-A to BRSR metrics, some
of which are estimates, is subject to substantial inherent measurement uncertainty, for example, GHG
Footprint, Water Footprint, Energy Footprint. Obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to support our
opinion does not reduce the uncertainty in the amounts and metrics.
LVII