[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 12-14

[PAGE 12]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
ITC's Recent Value-accretive Acquisitions
ITC is pursuing value-accretive acquisitions to build a portfolio aligned with the evolving consumer needs and
business landscape. The emphasis is on opportunities that offer a strong strategic fit, complement existing portfolios
and present significant headroom for growth. The acquisitions focus on categories where ITC has a clear right to win,
leveraging its enterprise strengths.
24 Mantra Organic
Scaling up ITC's
presence in the fast-
growing natural and
organic foods space.
Prasuma
Building a full-stack Frozen, Chilled and Ready to Cook Foods Portfolio.
x

[PAGE 13]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
Century Pulp & Paper
ITC has signed a
Business Transfer
Agreement to
acquire the Pulp and
Paper undertaking
of Aditya Birla Real
Estate Limited, a
strong strategic fit
with ITC’s
Paperboards and
Paper business.
Yoga Bar
Enhancing ITC's market
presence in the 'Good
for You' healthy
snacking space.
Mother Sparsh Blazeclan Technologies
Enabling ITC's Personal Care Products Business Augmenting ITC Infotech's
to build a category of the future in the premium capabilities to service
ayurvedic and natural baby care space. customers in a multi-cloud
and hybrid-cloud environment
to accelerate growth.
xi

[PAGE 14]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
New Growth Drivers at the Convergence of
Digital, Sustainability & Enterprise Strengths
ITC is pursuing new growth drivers at the intersection of mega trends in digital and sustainability, leveraging its
institutional strengths. The scaling up of the FoodTech services, ITCMAARS, as well as sustainable solutions to
substitute single-use plastics exemplifies this approach.
FoodTech
ITC's FoodTech services synergise the Company's strengths in Foods and Hotels as well as Digital capabilities.
Operating under 4 brands — ‘ITC Master Chef Creations’, ‘ITC Aashirvaad Soul Creations’, ‘ITC Sunfeast Baked
Creations’, and the newly launched ‘Sansho by ITC Master Chef’ — ITC's FoodTech services are delivered through over
55 cloud kitchens in Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Pune.
xii