[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 77-79

[PAGE 77]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company is well poised to strengthen its position for an exclusive ‘Fiama presents Best Portrayal of Mental
as one of the fastest growing food companies and the Health in Cinema’ Award which was a first in the industry.
‘most trusted provider of food products’ in the Indian With a focus on premiumisation and innovation, Fiama is
market. Your Company remains confident of rapidly scaling well-positioned to drive continued growth.
up the Branded Packaged Foods Businesses leveraging
The ‘Vivel’ portfolio continued to strengthen its core
the strong growth platforms nurtured over the years in
association with aloe vera and natural ingredients, with
chosen categories which offer immense headroom for
the launch of Sandal Soap, Aloe Vera based Bodywash &
growth, address opportunities in value added adjacencies
a new range of naturals based Handwash liquids. Vivel’s
by leveraging mother brands and nurture new vectors of
repositioning of ‘Magic of Soft Touch’, is anchored on the
growth where beachheads have been created.
benefit of soft skin and highlights heartfelt emotions that
can be sparked by a gentle touch, creating cherished
Personal Care Products
memories and stories. The brand continued to strengthen
The Personal Care industry witnessed a challenging its association with Women Empowerment with its
year, marked by muted demand conditions, heightened collaboration with Azad Foundation, through ‘Parvaz’,
competition and unprecedented volatility in commodity a year-long leadership training programme that fosters
prices which intensified margin pressures. The premium women’s empowerment and enables young women
segment, however, continued to grow faster, reflecting an leaders to be catalysts of change in their communities.
ongoing shift towards value-added offerings, brand-driven
‘Savlon’ delivered strong growth leveraging initiatives
differentiation and increased demand for high-quality,
such as ‘Savlon Lao Shaan Badhao’. As a testament to
ingredient-led & sustainable products.
the Business’ focus on innovation, Savlon was recognised
Despite headwinds in the operating environment, with the NIQ BASES Breakthrough innovation award by
your Company’s Personal Care Business achieved robust Nielsen, making it one of 15 winners out of 40000 new
volume growth led by rapid scale-up in new gen channels launches across the country. Post pandemic, the brand
(E-commerce/Q-commerce & Modern Trade). Strategic has been successfully transitioning its proposition from
partnership with key accounts, channel specific packs & ‘protection’ to ‘caring protection’, strengthening its
launches and agile execution continue to drive growth. differentiation and creating a base for sustained growth
The premium portfolio remains a significant growth driver, momentum.
reinforcing your Company’s focus on delivering superior
In the Home Care segment, the ‘Nimyle’ range of products
consumer experiences through innovative offerings and
continued to expand rapidly across geographies and
differentiated value propositions.
channels. The brand provides a markedly differentiated
In the Personal Wash segment, ‘Fiama’ continued its proposition to consumers with a 100% natural action
robust growth trajectory, in both gel bars and shower which is safe for kids and pets. To further enhance shelf
gels. The Business augmented its product portfolio with presence and consumer affinity, the product packaging
the launch of ‘Fiama Moisturising Bars with Japanese was revamped during the year. The brand also launched
Hokkaido Milk’ in 3 variants, offering moisture rich ‘Nimyle Clean Equal Mission’ - a first-of-its kind educative
indulgence, non-sticky nourished skin and mood uplifting module for children across schools, designed to foster
fragrances. Beyond product innovation, Fiama expanded cleaning at homes as a shared responsibility, by raising
its Virtual Therapy platform with the MINDS Foundation. awareness and inspiring action among the next generation.
During the year, the brand also collaborated with Filmfare Anchored in its core values and a clear brand proposition,
Your Company’s Personal Care Business achieved robust volume growth led by
rapid scale-up in new gen channels (E-commerce/Q-commerce & Modern Trade).
Strategic partnership with key accounts, channel specific packs & launches and
agile execution continue to drive growth. The premium portfolio remains
a significant growth driver, reinforcing your Company’s focus on
delivering superior consumer experiences.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 59

[PAGE 78]
Report of the Board of Directors
Nimyle remains committed to deepen consumer connect in the world, with 50 neem ecotypes sourced from
and expand availability across touchpoints. across India; your Company has tied up with a renowned
university for conducting primary research on these,
During the year, ‘Engage’ continued to strengthen its
to help deepen knowledge on Neem with a view to facilitate
position in a dynamic and evolving fragrance market.
development of new products. This facility also enhances
In recent years, the brand has pivoted based on the
the Business’ ability to serve high-potential eastern and
emerging consumer preference for perfumes & gifting,
north-eastern markets with greater agility, optimised costs
with both premium and mass perfume offerings growing
and reduced lead time.
well. Innovation and superior fragrance profiles remain
central to the brand’s strategy for scaling up consumer Your Company continues to strengthen its commitment to
traction. During the year, the ‘Spirit’ range of deos, sustainability with meaningful progress across packaging
with olfactive profiles of Oudh, Musk, fruity & floral was and consumer engagement. Fiama has expanded its use
launched. The premium L’amante range was extended of 50% recycled plastic across all PET bottle SKUs of
with differentiated variants such as Oudh, Fern, shower gels and hand wash, with clear on-pack callouts
Soie and Fluer. During the year, a new range of gift to build consumer awareness. To further promote refill
packs known as Vibes was introduced, providing a adoption, refill pouches made with recyclable plastic have
premium gifting experience. The brand stepped up also been introduced and are proposed to be scaled
consumer engagement to drive fragrance education with across variants.
‘Engage Scents & Senses’ with influencers & perfume
Your Company continued to earn widespread recognition
experts and amplified its digital content. Leveraging
across national and international forums for its innovative
robust R&D capabilities and in-house manufacturing,
product design, impactful communication, and purpose-led
the Business continues to deliver high-quality fragrances
brand initiatives. Fiama’s Mental Wellbeing Survey was
that resonate with discerning consumers.
honoured with the SABRE South Asia Diamond for
In the Skincare portfolio, the ‘Digital-first’ brand excellence in PR, while the recyclable Fiama Handwash
‘Dermafique’ continued to leverage an AI-powered smart pouch won the prestigious Global DOW Innovation Award.
skin advisor to provide personalised skin health analysis, Savlon Swasth India Mission received a Silver at the
empowering individuals to know their skin better and London International Awards for its impactful use of
adopt solutions suited to the unique skincare needs of social media in Health and Wellness and secured multiple
Indian consumers. During the year, offline expansion accolades at the Effie Awards and ET Brand Equity
gained momentum with entry into new large-format Brand Disruption Awards, including Golds for Influencer
stores, eliciting promising consumer response. Sustained Marketing and Viral Content. Vivel was awarded a Bronze
consumer education on customised skin health remains at the APAC EFFIES and a Gold at the ET Sharks Awards
a core focus as Dermafique seeks to build for the future for its tech-enabled campaign. Engage, Dermafique,
with data, science, and differentiated storytelling. and Nimyle were also celebrated across forums like
ET Digi+, Fulcrum, and Entrepreneur India Awards.
The Business achieved a major milestone this year with
These awards are a testament to the brands’ growing
the commissioning of the state-of-the-art Neemgarh
consumer franchise across target segments.
plant, situated in Uluberia, West Bengal. This modern,
digitally-enabled facility marks the first Personal Care The Business received 14 INDIASTAR 2024 awards for
Products plant in one of its most salient markets. excellence in packaging and its commitment to inclusivity
This site also houses the largest varieties of Neem plants was recognised with the FICCI Women Empowerment
The Personal Care Business achieved a major milestone this year with the
commissioning of the state-of-the-art Neemgarh plant, situated in Uluberia, West Bengal.
This modern, digitally-enabled facility marks the first Personal Care Products plant
in one of its most salient markets. This site also houses the largest varieties of
Neem plants in the world, with 50 neem ecotypes sourced from across India.
60 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 79]
Report of the Board of Directors
Award. Further, the Haridwar Unit was also felicitated with witness encouraging consumer response driven by wide
the CII Quality Circle Competition Winner Award in the range of offerings that enable ‘Do It Yourself’ activities,
Northern Region. immersive technologies such as augmented reality and
playful covers.
The Business, with its purpose-led brands serving
discerning consumers in a dynamically evolving The Writing Instruments portfolio is being further
environment, is well poised to seize future opportunities strengthened through superior writing systems and
on the back of innovations, impactful communications, product designs, enhancing differentiation through
institutional R&D strength & formulations, state-of-the-art strategic tie-ups and by expanding the portfolio with
manufacturing, packaging know-how and multi-channel innovative launches, bringing playfulness around the
distribution. brand proposition of ‘Enjoy Learning’. To further strengthen
the premium portfolio, the Business introduced a set of
Education and Stationery Products revamped designs elevated by premium finishes and
aesthetics under its range of Mathematical Instruments.
The Education and Stationery Products industry witnessed
heightened competitive intensity with the widespread ‘Classmate All Rounder’, an inter-school initiative to
resurgence of regional players on the back of sharp promote holistic learning in line with the National Education
moderation in input prices, accentuated by cheap imports Policy 2020, continued to gain strong momentum in
of paper. Against this challenging operating environment, its third edition, with participation from top schools
the Business delivered a resilient performance with the across the country. The initiative has engaged nearly
flagship brand ‘Classmate’ sustaining its market leadership one million students across 33 cities since inception.
position in the Notebooks segment. The Business
The multi-channel capability of your Company’s strong
continues to leverage your Company’s institutional
distribution network was leveraged to enhance availability
strengths which provide unique sources of competitive
and drive sales. The Business sustained its leadership
advantage such as paper manufacturing expertise
position on e-Commerce platforms through consistent
including the capabilities of your Company’s Life Sciences
availability of a wide assortment of products, backed by
and Technology Centre to enhance product superiority &
focused interventions to enhance consumer traction.
differentiation in the core notebooks category and drive
Consumer engagement was further augmented through
premiumisation, multi-channel distribution infrastructure
Classmateshop.com, a D2C platform that provides
and brand building expertise.
consumers the opportunity to ‘Personalise & Capture’
In keeping with its proposition of ‘Enjoy Learning’, memories on Classmate notebooks. The myClassmate app,
a gamified app focused on developing co–curricular skills
the Classmate brand continues to provide differentiated
and make learning engaging and enjoyable, has garnered
offerings through technology via eduGAMES Infinity,
nearly 2.5 million downloads.
that provides students the opportunity to play and learn
new skills. During the year, the Business accelerated Equipped with state-of-the-art technology and a newly
the adoption of ‘Classmate Pulse’ through targeted installed quality lab, the dedicated manufacturing
activations focused on new consumer cohorts and also facility at Vijayawada is enabling the Business develop
strengthened the ‘Paperkraft’ portfolio with the launch of differentiated notebook formats, drive cost reduction
a new range of notebooks with discrete design themes. and enhance capabilities to exploit opportunities in
The ‘Classmate Interaktiv’ Notebook portfolio continues to overseas markets.
In keeping with its proposition of ‘Enjoy Learning’,
the Classmate brand continues to provide differentiated offerings
through technology via eduGAMES Infinity, that provides students
the opportunity to play and learn new skills.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 61