[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 380-382

[PAGE 380]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages
a. Median remuneration / wages:
Male Female
Number Median Number Median
Remuneration/ Remuneration/
Salary/Wages Of Salary/Wages Of
Respective Category Respective Category
(In INR) (In INR)
Board of Directors (BoD) 13 1,00,50,000 3 66,79,508
Key Managerial Personnel* 5 10,00,04,041 - -
Employees other than BoD 9,229 10,60,502 1,932 8,96,595
and KMP
Workers 10,197 5,31,788 678 1,98,197#
* Comprising Chairman & Managing Director, Wholetime Directors and Company Secretary
#The majority of female workers are employed in new manufacturing units. Since a significant majority of these recruits are
new entrants, the median remuneration appears lower.
b. Gross wages paid to females as % of total wages paid by the entity, in the following format:
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Gross wages paid to females as % of 10% 9%
total wages paid
Note: Pertains to permanent employees and workers of the Company.
The above data point does not include information for Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed
separately as a part of the Exhibit-A.
4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) 5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to
responsible for addressing human rights impacts redress grievances related to human rights issues.
or issues caused or contributed to by the business?
ITC’s open-door practices encourage amicable resolution
(Yes/No).
of grievances. Employees are encouraged to first discuss
Yes. ITC has a long-standing commitment to human the grievance with their immediate reporting authority
rights and it is reflected in its Code of Conduct. The and attempt to arrive at a resolution. If grievances persist,
Company has policies on human rights which are employees can fill up the Grievance Redressal Form and
submit to the concerned HR Manager. The process of
applicable to its employees, suppliers and service
registering a grievance is by filling up a grievance form
providers. The Company continues to work towards
and submitting it to the concerned HR Manager which is
strengthening and introducing systems to ensure
then evaluated and analysed and a resolution is arrived
sound implementation of ITC’s policies on human
and communicated to the employee. The grievance
rights and decent workplace. All ITC contracts for
redressal guidelines and necessary forms are available
the construction of factories and property upgrades
on the Company intranet where employees can access the
incorporate the environment, health, safety and human
same directly. The ITC Whistleblower Policy (the Policy)
rights clauses, including workplace environment and
encourages Directors and employees of the Company to
compliance of labour practices and are supervised by promptly bring to the Company’s attention, instances of
ITC managers for adherence. illegal or unethical conduct, actual or suspected incidents
of fraud, actions that affect the financial integrity of
Human Rights related policies of the Company are
the Company, or actual or suspected instances of leak
available on the ITC Portal. These include ITC Code of
of unpublished price sensitive information, that could
Conduct, Policy on Freedom of Association, Policy on
adversely impact the Company’s operations, business
Prohibition of Child Labour and Prevention of Forced
performance and/or reputation. The Company investigates
Labour at the Workplace, and Policy on Diversity, Equity
such reported incidents in an impartial manner and takes
& Inclusion. The implementation of these Policies is appropriate action to ensure that the requisite standards
ensured by Divisional/SBU Chief Executives, through of professional and ethical conduct are always upheld. The
members of the respective Management Committees Policy is available at https://www.itcportal.com/about-
of the respective Businesses. itc/values/index.aspx#sectionb5
XXXIII

[PAGE 381]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers:
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Filed Pending Remarks Filed Pending Remarks
During Resolution At During Resolution At
The Year The End Of Year The Year The End Of Year
Sexual Harassment 4 1 - 4 0 -
Discrimination at 0 0 - 0 0 -
workplace
Child Labour 0 0 - 0 0 -
Forced Labour/ 0 0 - 0 0 -
Involuntary Labour
Wages 0 0 - 0 0 -
Other Human 0 0 - 0 0 -
Rights Related Issues
Note: ITC has a zero-tolerance approach to any behaviour that constitutes sexual harassment. There are Internal Complaints Committees
to examine and investigate any complaints. In the past, where investigations have indicated any violations, appropriate disciplinary actions
have been taken, reinforcing the Company’s stated position and helping create an environment free of any harassment.
*For further details, refer to Principle 5, Essential Indicator - Question 7
7. Complaints filed under the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal)
Act, 2013, in the following format:
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Total Complaints reported under Sexual Harassment on of Women at 5 4
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (POSH)
Complaints on POSH as a % of female employees/workers 0.19% 0.18%
Complaints on POSH upheld 4* 4
*Including one complaint pending at the end of the year
Note: Pertains to permanent employees and workers of the Company.
The above data point does not include information for Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed
separately as a part of the Exhibit-A.
8. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
ITC is committed to a workplace free from harassment, including sexual harassment at the workplace, and has zero
tolerance for such unacceptable conduct. ITC encourages reporting of any harassment concerns and is responsive to
complaints about harassment or other unwelcome or offensive conduct. As part of the Policy, the complainant will
not suffer any harassment, retaliation or adverse employment condition upon this reporting. All employees are made
aware of this Policy through regular training and awareness on the subject and confidentiality clauses are clearly
stated. Committees have been constituted across locations to enquire into complaints of sexual harassment and to
recommend appropriate action, wherever required.
9. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)
Yes, contract manufacturing agreements provide for compliance with accepted standards on issues related to EHS,
human rights and labour practices. Additionally, ITC has a ‘Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers’. This
requires suppliers to comply with applicable laws, labour standards, environmental regulations, and uphold human
rights and principles of ethics and integrity in their operations. All Suppliers are expected to meet the requirements
of this Code. ITC also expects its Suppliers to hold their business associates to the same standards as enshrined in
this Code.
10. Assessments for the year:
% Of Your Plants And Offices That Were Assessed
(By Entity Or Statutory Authorities Or Third Parties)
Child labour 100%
Forced/involuntary labour 100%
Sexual Harassment 100%
Discrimination at workplace 100%
Wages 100%
Others-please specify -
Note: The Company has Policies on Human Rights which are applicable to all its employees and value chain partners. The said
Policies and their implementation are directed towards adherence to applicable laws and upholding the spirit of human rights.
XXXIV

[PAGE 382]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
11. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from
the assessments at Question 10 above.
Please refer to response to Question 1 of Principle 5 under leadership indicators.
Leadership Indicators differently abled persons (including visitors), with
facilities like Persons with Disabilities (PWD) friendly
1. Details of a business process being modified / entrance, wheelchair, braille systems, tactile pavers,
introduced as a result of addressing human rights accessible washrooms etc.
grievances/complaints.
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
ITC’s Code of Conduct for its employees as well as
Suppliers and Service Providers, are adopted by the ITC’s Policy on Sustainable Supply Chain and Responsible
Board. The Code covers ITC’s commitment to human Sourcing ensures integration of sustainability in its
rights aspects like self-respect and human dignity, child supply chains. ITC’s suppliers /value-chain partners are
labour, gender friendly workplace, relationships with expected to adopt the principles enumerated in ITC’s
suppliers and customers, health & safety, environment, Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers. ITC
transparency, anti-bribery and corruption, and exemplary reserves the right to verify compliance with the Code of
personal conduct. ITC constantly engages with the
Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers at any time
rightsholders and stakeholders across the supply chain
through appropriate audit and assessment mechanisms,
for devising programmes that support Human Rights
including self-certification.
and Social Development in an integrated manner.
ITC periodically coordinates third party Human Rights
An illustrative example for ITC’s leaf tobacco value chain
impact assessment for the tobacco farm supply
is presented below. ITC coordinates Human Rights
chain. Additionally, ITC conducts third-party desktop
impact assessment with an independent party for its
assessment of its Critical Tier - 1* suppliers which
farm value chains. Sustainable Tobacco Programme 2.0
includes key aspects on Human Rights, Labour Rights
is an industry initiative to enhance agricultural supply
and Occupational Health and Safety, amongst other
chain due diligence and accelerate positive impacts
on environmental, social and governance elements. assessment criteria.
The programme focuses on 8 themes demanding leaf For more details, refer to response to Question 1
suppliers’ commitment on – Water, Human Rights, Crop, (Principle 5) under leadership indicators.
Soil, Climate Change, Natural Habitats, Livelihoods
and Governance. The Human Rights Due Diligence % Of Value Chain
focusses on identifying human rights risks and impacts Partners* (By Value Of
covering farmers and communities. Some of the actions
Business Done With Such
undertaken as an outcome of the assessment are:
Partners) That Were
Training and Awareness on Human Rights: Training and
Assessed
Awareness on Human Rights organised in 484 villages
covering subjects such as Farm Safety, Child Labour, Sexual Harassment
Wages, Fair Treatment, Freedom of Association, Water,
Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH), No Discrimination and Discrimination at
As of 31st March, 2025,
other areas pertaining to Human Rights. workplace
~70% of the Company’s
Farm Safety: ITC undertakes a holistic approach that
address the farm safety challenges in farming. 10,316 Child Labour Critical Tier-I suppliers
farmers have been provided with Personal Protective have been assessed
Equipment (PPE) kits for safe spraying of chemicals Forced Labour/ by a third party on ESG
and Secured Storage Box for safe storage of chemicals Involuntary Labour aspects including human
was provided for 7,830 farmers. Technology like drones rights-related aspects.
were scaled up covering 30,900 acres minimising human Wages
interference while chemical spraying, besides increasing
Others – please specify
the efficacy of operation and water saving.
*All ITC Businesses have identified Critical Tier-1 suppliers
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human based on aspects like buy value, ESG risk exposure and
rights due-diligence conducted. importance to business continuity, among others. ITC’s
The scope and coverage of Human Rights Due Diligence Sustainable Supply Chain Programme is focussed on
extends to own operations (including manufacturing working closely with the set of identified critical suppliers..
locations and offices) and value chain partners.
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken
or underway to address significant risks / concerns
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to
differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of arising from the assessments at Question 4 above.
the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Please refer to responses to Questions 1 and 4 of
Most of ITC’s establishments are accessible to the Principle 5 under Leadership Indicators.
XXXV