[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 391-393

[PAGE 391]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anti-competitive conduct by the
entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
The Company has not engaged in any anti-competitive conduct.
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity.
S. Public Policy Method Resorted For Whether Frequency Of Web Link,
No. Advocated Such Advocacy Information Review By Board If Available
Available In (Annually/Half-
Public Domain? Yearly/Quarterly/
(Yes/No) Others – Please
Specify)
1. The Company’s Policy The Company works with For more details, Annual -
on Responsible apex industry institutions refer to ‘Report of
Advocacy approved that are engaged in the Board
by the Board provides policy advocacy, like the of Directors &
the framework for Confederation of Indian Management
necessary interface Industry, Federation Discussion and
with Government/ of Indian Chambers of Analysis’ section
Regulatory Authorities Commerce & Industry, forming part of
on matters concerning Associated Chambers of ITC’s Report and
various sectors in Commerce and Industry Accounts 2025.
which the Company of India, and various
operates. other forums including
Sector-wise matters regional Chambers of
taken up are in line Commerce.
with national priorities
The Company’s
to strengthen
engagement with the
domestic industry,
relevant authorities is
promoting sustainable
guided by the values of
agriculture and
commitment, integrity,
business practices.
transparency and taking
into consideration
interests of all
stakeholders.
Principle 8
Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
Essential Indicators
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the
current financial year.
Name And Brief SIA Date Of Whether Results Relevant
Details Of Project Notification Notification Conducted By Communicated Web Link
No. Independent In Public
External Domain
Agency (Yes/No)
(Yes/No)
Not Applicable
XLIV

[PAGE 392]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken
by your entity.
S. No. Name Of State District No. Of Project % Of PAFs Amount
Project For Affected Covered By Paid To PAFs
Which R&R Families R&R In The FY
Is Ongoing (PAFs) (In INR)
Not Applicable
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress 5. Job creation in smaller towns – Disclose wages paid
grievances of the community. to persons employed (including employees or workers
employed on a permanent or non-permanent / on contract
Details on mechanisms to receive and redress grievances
basis) in the following locations, as % of total wage cost.
of the community are provided under Question 25 (of
Section A). Location FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Rural 14 % 15 %
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs
by value) sourced from suppliers. Semi-urban 10 % 11 %
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 Urban 18% 19%
Metropolitan 57% 54%
Directly sourced from 29.72% 25.76%
MSMEs/small producers Note: Pertains to permanent employees and workers of the Company.
There is a reclassification of one site leading to re-statement
Directly from within India 92.86% 92.48%
of data for the previous reporting period.
Note: The above data point does not include information for The above data point does not include information for Hotels
Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed
disclosed separately as a part of the Exhibit-A. separately as a part of the Exhibit-A.
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Not Applicable
2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as
identified by government bodies:
State Aspirational District Amount (Rs. In Lakhs)
Telangana Bhadradri Kothagudem 2,170.16
Uttarakhand Haridwar 526.86
Madhya Pradesh Vidisha 294.46
Assam Darrang 273.30
Odisha Malkangiri 267.66
Rajasthan Jaisalmer 263.61
Rajasthan Baran 193.08
Bihar Begusarai 182.89
Odisha Koraput 154.42
Uttar Pradesh Bahraich 146.54
Chhattisgarh Sukma 110.00
Haryana Nuh 97.93
Bihar Muzaffarpur 90.40
Multiple* (12 states) Multiple* 839.76
*Spends in balance 50 Aspirational Districts of the total 63 where ITC had CSR project spends
XLV

[PAGE 393]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
3. a. Do you have a preferential procurement policy 5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on
where you give preference to purchase from suppliers any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes
comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No): wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
The Board approved Policy on Sustainable Supply Chain and Nil
Responsible Sourcing defines the supply chain partners
which includes farmers. ITC is committed to collaborating
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
with farmers to make them more sustainable and help
In the social sector, the two most important stakeholders
build their adaptive capacity and resilience to emerging
risks like climate change, water stress and other extreme of ITC are:
weather events. ITC is also raising awareness and working • Rural communities with whom the Company’s Agri-
with farmers on crop quality, safety, protection, integrity and Business has forged long and enduring partnerships;
traceability, as applicable.
and
• Communities residing in close proximity to our
b. From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you
manufacturing Units, situated in urban and semi-
procure?
rural locations
Farmers including women farmers and small landholders
The beneficiaries of ITC’s CSR programmes mostly
have been identified as marginalised/vulnerable group.
belong to the under privileged sections of the
society and small & marginal farmers who face the
c. What percentage of total procurement (by value) challenges of securing sustainable livelihoods. These
does it constitute? challenges are addressed through the Two Horizon
During FY 2024-25, ITC consumed over 2.33 million strategy of making today’s dominant source(s) of
tonnes of agri raw materials, which is nearly 68% of livelihoods sustainable; and strengthening capabilities
overall raw materials’ consumption. for tomorrow.
The Two Horizon strategy ensures an integrated
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the strategy to development involving several interventions.
intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity
Presented ahead are the total number of approximate
(in the current financial year), based on traditional
beneficiaries for key interventions and estimated
knowledge.
proportion of beneficiaries belonging to vulnerable and
Nil marginalised groups.
CSR Projects No. Of Beneficiaries From CSR % Of Beneficiaries From Vulnerable
Projects (2024-25 ) And Marginalised Groups
Climate Smart Agriculture 12 Lakhs# SC / ST – 13%; Female – 15%
Natural Resources Management - 60,200 SC / ST – 14%; Female – 27%
Water Stewardship
On-Farm Livelihood Diversification - 10,500 SC / ST – 21%; Female – 21%
Social Forestry
Off-Farm Livelihood Diversification - 1.91 Lakhs SC / ST – 16%; Female – 40%
Improved Animal Husbandry Practices
Support to Education 6.57 Lakhs Children – 100%; ~50% Girl Children
Skilling of Youth 15,600 SC / ST – 26%; Female – 52%
Improving Health & Sanitation - 24.62 Lakhs SC / ST – 2%
Waste Management
Improving Health & Sanitation - 15.24 Lakhs 100% - Women, Adolescents
Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition And Children
Women Empowerment 10.10 Lakhs** 100% Women
# Excludes farmers covered under NITI Aayog partnership programme or any other PPPs
** Includes Self Help Group (SHG) members and Financial Literacy programme SHG members
XLVI