[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 361-363

[PAGE 361]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
9. Does the entity have Yes, as stated under (8) above, the CSR and Sustainability Committee of the Board reviews,
a specified Committee monitors and provides strategic direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability
of the Board/ Director practices towards fulfilling its Triple Bottom Line objectives. The Committee seeks
responsible for decision to guide the Company in crafting unique models to support creation of sustainable
making on sustainability livelihoods together with environmental re-generation.
related issues? (Yes The CSR and Sustainability Committee of the Board also reviews the Business
/ No). If yes, provide Responsibility and Sustainability Report of the Company and recommends the same to
details. the Board for adoption, and approves the Sustainability Report of the Company.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review Indicate whether review was undertaken by Frequency
Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/
Committee Any other – please specify)
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Performance against Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other
above policies and follow Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
up action
On a On a On a On a On a On a On a On a On a
quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly
basis basis basis basis basis basis basis basis basis
Compliance with Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other
statutory requirements Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
of relevance to the
principles, and, On a On a On a On a On a On a On a On a On a
rectification of any quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly
non-compliances basis basis basis basis basis basis basis basis basis
The Company is in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations.
11. Has the entity carried • ITC has a robust review mechanism supported by both external and internal audits
out independent covering the implementation of key policies.
assessment/
• ITC has been obtaining independent third-party assurance for its Sustainability
evaluation of the
Reports since 2004. In the reporting year, authenticity of the data and systems
working of its policies
disclosed in the Sustainability Report 2025 has been assured by an independent
by an external
third-party assurance provider; the assurance has been provided as per the
agency? (Yes/No). If
International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 at the ‘Reasonable
yes, provide name of
Assurance’ level.
the agency.
• ITC has computed its Green House Gas (GHG) inventory, including GHG emissions,
biogenic emissions and GHG removals, in accordance with ISO 14064:2018; the
GHG inventory of FY 2024-25 has been verified by an independent third-party
assurance provider.
• In addition to the above, relevant third-party assessments and certifications are
conducted across Business Units periodically.
XIV

[PAGE 362]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
Section C: Principle-wise Performance Disclosure
Principle 1
Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent
and Accountable.
Essential Indicator
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the principles during the financial year
Segment Total Number Topics / Principles Covered Under %Age Of Persons In
Of Training And The Training And Its Impact Respective Category
Awareness Covered By The
Programmes Held Awareness Programmes
Board of Directors 5 The Directors are briefed on the 100%
sustainability initiatives of the
Key Managerial Company from time to time. The
Personnel (other Directors are also updated on changes
than Directors) / developments in the domestic /
global corporate and industry scenario
including those pertaining to statutes /
legislation & economic environment and
on matters affecting the Company, to
enable them to take well informed and
timely decisions.
During the financial year 2024-25,
the Directors and KMP of the Company
were briefed / updated on the following:
(a) Overview of the Company’s
businesses and ITC’s globally
acknowledged sustainability
initiatives provided to newly
appointed Directors.
(b) Sustainability Initiatives of the
Company, including the Company’s
Sustainability 2.0 vision and priority
areas.
(c) Overall macro-economic scenario
in India.
(d) Usage of Artificial Intelligence (AI)
across businesses and unlocking
growth through AI and Gen AI.
(e) Periodic review of the Company’s
businesses.
Employees other 11* Health and Safety,** ITC Code of 100%*
than BoD and KMPs Conduct, Policy on Prevention of
Sexual Harassment at the workplace,
and Wellness programmes
Workers 11* Health and Safety,** ITC Code of 100%*
Conduct, Policy on Prevention of
Sexual Harassment at the workplace,
and Wellness programmes
For definitions, please refer to the note below table 20a (Under Section A).
*11 Types of training programmes conducted, wherein all Employees/Workers were covered under at least one of the topics.
**Detailed training programmes on various health and safety sub-elements were also provided
XV

[PAGE 363]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
2. Details of fines / penalties /punishment/ award/ compounding fees/ settlement amount paid in proceedings (by the
entity or by directors / KMPs) with regulators/ law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, in the financial year, in
the following format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of
SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
Monetary*
NGRBC Name Of The Regulatory/ Amount Brief Of Has An Appeal
Principle Enforcement Agencies/ (In INR) The Case Been Preferred?
Judicial Institutions (Yes/No)
Penalty/Fine
Settlement Nil
Compounding Fee
Non-Monetary*
NGRBC Name Of The Regulatory/ Has An Appeal
Brief Of
Principle Enforcement Agencies/ Been Preferred?
The Case
Judicial Institutions (Yes/No)
Imprisonment
Nil
Punishment
*The above disclosure has been made in accordance with the Company’s Policy for determination of materiality of events and
information for disclosure to the Stock Exchanges, and in line with the disclosures made to the Stock Exchanges.
3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary
or non-monetary action has been appealed.
Case Details Name of the Regulatory/Enforcement Agencies/Judicial Institutions
Not Applicable
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide
a web-link to the policy.
The Company’s Code of Conduct covers aspects relating to anti-corruption and anti-bribery. In terms of the said Code, the
Company believes in conducting its business in a transparent manner and does not indulge in bribery or corruption. The
ITC Code of Conduct can be accessed on the Company’s corporate website at
https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/values/index.aspx#sectionb5
Further, in terms of the Company’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers:
(a) all Suppliers and Service Providers of the Company are required to avoid any actual or potential conflicts of interest in
their business dealings with the Company that could create a perception of unfairness or lead to uncompetitive favours.
If any such instance arises, the Suppliers and Service Providers are also required to disclose any such situation of
conflict of interest, including involvement or interest of any employee of the Company or his / her immediate family
members in their business.
(b) all Suppliers and Service Providers, in their dealings with the Company, are prohibited to indulge in any form of bribery or
corruption that is intended to induce or reward improper conduct or influence any decision. The Company expects and seeks
confirmation in its commercial and contractual terms that Suppliers and Service Providers have not offered or promised or
provided any benefit, either in cash or in kind, to any employee or any relative / associate of any employee of the Company or
of any of its associate companies, in order to facilitate their existing or future business with the Company.
The said Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers can be accessed on the Company’s corporate website at
https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/sustainability-policy.aspx#coc-vendor
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law
enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption:
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Directors Nil Nil
KMPs Nil Nil
Employees Nil Nil
Workers Nil Nil
XVI