[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 353-355

[PAGE 353]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures)
23. (a) Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures (As on 31.03.2025)
Refer Note 30(ii) of Consolidated Financial Statements forming part of Report and Accounts 2025, for details on subsidiaries,
associates and joint ventures. The report is prepared on a Standalone basis.
VI. CSR Details
24. (i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No). Yes
(ii) Turnover of the Company for the year ended 31st March, 2025 - ` 73,464.55 crores
(iii) Net worth of the Company as at 31st March, 2025 - ` 65,607.71 crores (computed as per the Companies Act, 2013)
VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
25. Complaints/grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible
Business Conduct.
Stakeholder Grievance FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Group From Redressal
Number Of Number Of Remarks Number Of Number Of Remarks
Whom Mechanism In
Complaints Complaints Complaints Complaints
Complaint Is Place (Yes/No)
Filed Pending Filed Pending
Received (If Yes, Then
During The Resolution During The Resolution
Provide Web-Link
Year At Close Of Year At Close Of
For Grievance
The Year The Year
Redress Policy)*
Communities Yes 7 7# - 6 0 -
Investors and
Yes 1 0 - 0 0 -
shareholders
Employees
Yes 5 1 - 16 1^ -
and workers
Customers Yes 19,813 2,505 - 21,995 2,011^ -
Value Chain
Yes 0 0 - - - -
Partners
*The details of grievance redressal mechanisms for each stakeholder group are provided in the table below.
# The process is undertaken annually in February / March, and resolution initiated in April, and hence they are still open as on
31st March 2025.
^ Resolved after March 2024.
Stakeholder Grievance Redressal Mechanism In Place
Group From Whom
Complaint Is Received
Communities The major stakeholders of ITC’s Social Investments Programme (SIP) are communities for
whom the programmes are implemented. ITC therefore, adopts a bottom-up approach by
keeping community needs and priorities as the key driver for all its interventions. Detailed
and structured community engagements are planned every 5 years to revisit the changing
needs of the community and the emerging priorities, which then feed into designing of new
interventions or re-designing of ongoing programmes. Additionally, annual household surveys
are also undertaken to fine-tune the strategies formulated and ascertain any new needs that
may come up.
ITC’s SIP team takes up Annual Community Engagement to capture the views, suggestions
and grievances of community members pertaining to the programmes implemented by SIP
team. This annual engagement is conducted typically during February/March every year, and
the resolution of issues (if any) happens in the subsequent financial year. During 2024-25, 48
such community engagements were held across major States where SIP programmes are
implemented. These were conducted by ITC SIP team’s State level managers. Meetings were
organised with community members in villages and urban catchments, wherein the NGOs
VI

[PAGE 354]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
implementing the programme were also present. All meetings were planned and reviewed by
the SIP team at Head Office. From the 48 engagements, 7 cases of grievances (mainly related
to requests for further interventions and scope of improvement) were reported. The SIP State
teams have taken cognisance of these and appropriate actions have been incorporated in the
plans for the upcoming year.
In addition to the grievance redressal mechanism for communities, there are other mechanisms
also by internal SIP teams and implementation partners to ensure regular engagement with
community. These are done through structured monitoring field visits done by ITC Managers
from Head Office, Regional levels and State levels. Also, multiple meetings are conducted by
implementation partners to gather feedback and suggestions. In addition to these, impact
assessments are conducted annually, with third party evaluating agencies which helps in
assessing the programmes and also gathering feedback from communities.
Investors and Yes, https://www.itcportal.com/investor/index.aspx
shareholders
The Company has an Investor Service Centre (‘ISC’) which is registered with the SEBI as a
Category II Share Transfer Agent for providing in-house share registration and related services
to the shareholders and investors. ISC has effective systems and processes in place to ensure
prompt redressal of investor grievances, as follows:
(a) ISC has a ‘Complaint Identification Policy’ for identification of investor complaints. ISC attends
to shareholder / investor complaints within three working days, except where constrained by
disputes or legal impediments.
(b) The Head of ISC is responsible for redressal of investor grievances.
(c) The Company has a specific e-mail ID earmarked for receiving investor complaints which
is isc@itc.in
(d) The ‘Investor Charter’ of the Company and the status of investor complaints received by the
Company are available on its website at
https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/shareholder-value/investor-relations/investor-charter.aspx
and https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/shareholder-value/pdf/investor-complaint.pdf,
respectively.
(e) A Board Level Committee viz., the Securityholders Relationship Committee has been mandated
to oversee redressal of investor grievances.
(f) Details of investor complaints received by the Company are filed on a quarterly basis with
the Stock Exchanges where the Company’s shares are listed, and also with the SEBI on a
half-yearly basis.
Employees and The Company, through its Grievance Redressal Policy, seeks to address employee concerns
workers and complaints pertaining to human rights and labour practices. A Grievance Redressal
Procedure with appropriate systems and mechanisms is available across ITC Units. It aims
to facilitate open and structured discussions on grievances raised on labour practices and
human rights. The implementation is ensured by Divisional/SBU Chief Executives, through
members of the respective Management Committees of the Businesses.
Customers Robust systems have been put in place across ITC Businesses to continuously engage with
consumers for gathering feedback and address their concerns, if any, in a timely manner.
A dedicated customer interactions team is in place to address any product related query/
complaint. Several communication channels like email, telephone number and feedback
forms are provided to the consumers. In addition, the Company has an online reputation
management team which interacts with consumers via social media channels, and responds
to their queries in real time. A Customer Relationship Management (CRM) platform has been
implemented for capturing customer complaints, queries, feedback and suggestions received
across channels. The CRM platform also provides consumer insights for bringing about
process related changes, and system enhancements for improving the CSAT scores.
• Customer can reach out to ITC via following email in ITC Portal:
webmaster@itc.in
o
Contactus@itc.in
o
itccares@itc.in
o
• Customers can also raise their grievances via Brand-specific websites.
Value Chain As per the Company’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers, they are expected to
Partners bring to the notice of the manager concerned at ITC, any actual or suspected breach of the Code.
Suppliers and Service Providers are encouraged to report any known or suspected improper
behaviour of ITC employees. Such reports are treated in a confidential manner.
VII

[PAGE 355]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
26. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues
Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and
social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to
adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications
S. Material Indicate Rationale For In Case Of Risk, Approach To Financial Implications Of
No. Issue Whether Risk Identifying The Adapt Or Mitigate The Risk Or Opportunity
Identified Or Opportunity Risk/Opportunity (Indicate Positive Or
(R/O) Negative Implications)
1. Climate Risk Climate and nature Risk Mitigation Strategy Potential impact
Change & related physical and Physical Risk Management: • As average temperatures
Sustainability transition risks may • Use contemporary climate rise, extreme weather
impact business risk modelling tools for events are expected to
operations, identifying high-risk/ grow in terms of severity
sourcing, supply vulnerable sites and and frequency. These
chain and increase agri value chains, and could have significant
compliance costs. undertaking detailed impact on the Company’s
assessments for developing operations including
locally contextual the health and safety
adaptation plans and of its workforce, its
undertaking measures for physical assets and agri
improving climate resilience value chains leading
of ITC’s operations, people to complete or partial
and value chains; outage of operations.
Further, these events may
• Promote climate smart
also adversely impact the
agriculture, and development
availability and quality
of heat/drought tolerant
of agri raw materials
and high yielding varieties
and consequently, the
to improve productivity by
production and sales of
adopting micro region-
the Company’s products;
specific agronomic practices:
• Vagaries of weather
- Developing region-specific
caused by climate change
package of practices and
may impact crop cycles,
promoting climate smart
output and productivity
farming techniques to
resulting in disruption of
mitigate impact of weather;
operations/supply chain;
- Enhancing climate resilience
• Availability of water for
of farmers through capacity
own operations as well
building programmes by
as agri value chains may
leveraging ITCMAARS and
be adversely impacted
the Farmers’ Producer
by erratic precipitation
Organisation (FPO)
patterns;
ecosystem, supported by
• Changes in nature,
field demonstrations under
biodiversity and / or
Choupal Pradarshan Khets;
ecosystem intactness
- Comprehensive programmes
(e.g., soil erosion and
on social forestry, soil and
depletion, species
moisture conservation and
diversity and composition)
biodiversity conservation;
may adversely disrupt
- Adoption of water supply chains and
stewardship approach to operations;
achieve water security for • Besides physical risks,
all stakeholders within the transition risks associated
defined catchment areas of with climate change, may
units located in high water impact the Company’s
stress areas. operations:
• Supply chain diversification - Additional levies may be
and contingency planning; imposed by regulatory
• Map risks arising out authorities for emission/
of climate crisis, build water intensive industries
adaptive capacity and invest to address climate
VIII