[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 120-122

[PAGE 120]
Report of the Board of Directors
actions that exemplify the power of innovation, – strengthening capabilities of Implementation
development, and cooperation in shaping a prosperous Partners / Community Based Organisations (CBOs)
future for all. in all project catchments for participatory planning,
ownership and sustenance of interventions.
Through the CII–ITC Sustainability Awards,
35 organisations were recognised for excellence – facilitating the development agenda in a manner that
in sustainable business practices. The Awards is inclusive and empowers women, the poor and
are a part of the continued efforts of the Centre to marginalised communities including persons with
create awareness on sustainability practices and to disability in the vicinity of your Company’s factories
create capacities in business. and agri-catchments, thereby significantly improving
Human Development Indices (HDI).
To help industry manage climate risk, leverage
market opportunities and become climate resilient, – ensuring behavioural change through focus on
CII instituted a CAP 2.0° (Climate Action Programme) demand generation for all interventions, thereby
to build capacity of industry and recognise best enabling participation, contribution and asset creation
practices and innovation on climate action. for the community.
The CAP 2.0° awards are the first one in India
– pursuing the Prototype-Pilot-Scale-Amplification
to recognise industry’s efforts on climate change
approach to incorporate innovative and differentiated
mitigation and adaptation. The awards in its 3rd edition
design elements in a structured manner, whilst also
recognised 21 organisations for their pioneering work
striving for amplification of successful interventions by
in managing climate change.
partnering with Government and Collaboratives.
The Centre trained nearly 400 professionals from
Your Company’s stakeholders are confronted with
300+ organisations on sustainable business practices
multi-dimensional and inter-related concerns, at the
through 25 sessions conducted during the year.
core of which is the challenge of securing sustainable
livelihoods. Your Company undertakes periodic
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
stakeholder engagements in the form of community
Your Company’s overarching commitment towards
need assessments, impact assessments and other
creating significant and sustainable societal value is
evaluations. During the year, your Company undertook
manifest in its CSR initiatives that embrace the most
48 such community engagements across 14 states
disadvantaged sections of society, especially in rural
where your Company’s Social Investments Programme
India, through economic and social empowerment based
is being implemented, for the purpose of understanding
on grassroots capacity building. Your Company has a
grievances if any, of the community members. Further,
comprehensive CSR Policy outlining programmes, projects
over 3,000 household surveys were also conducted
and activities that your Company undertakes to create a
during the year. Accordingly, interventions under
significant positive impact on identified stakeholders. All
your Company’s Social Investments Programme have
these programmes fall within the purview of Section 135
been appropriately designed to build capacities and
read with Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 and
promote sustainable livelihoods.
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
Your Company’s Social Investments Programme follows
Rules, 2014.
the Two Horizon approach that focuses on inclusive
The key tenets of your Company’s CSR interventions are:
growth and holistic development of households; with
– deep engagement in identified core operational women and poor & vulnerable communities at the core.
geographies to promote holistic development and In addition to being beneficiaries of several programmes,
interventions designed in order to respond to the women are also influencers and active participants in
most significant development challenges of your grassroot institutions. Several such women also act as
Company’s stakeholder groups. change makers in the society.
102 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 121]
Report of the Board of Directors
The Two Horizon approach provides an integrated and To address the magnitude of water stress, your Company
affirmative response to development by transforming has also extended water stewardship work to river basin
lives and landscapes. Whilst Horizon-I focuses on level interventions so that the competing demands from
strengthening and sustaining livelihoods of communities neighbouring areas of our catchments are addressed
(primarily agriculture and allied sector livelihoods); and a more holistic and sustainable impact created.
Horizon-II focuses on building capabilities and capacities
Work done in four river basins till date in Maharashtra
to empower communities for a better life for the future.
(Ghod basin), Madhya Pradesh (Kolans basin), Tamil Nadu
The footprint of your Company’s CSR projects is (Upper Bhawani basin) and Telangana (Murreru basin)
spread across 24 states/Union Territories covering over have resulted in the basins achieving water positive status,
300 districts. as against the water deficit estimated in baseline
studies. Work has started in the fifth basin in Karnataka
Your Company’s CSR interventions were conferred
(South Pennar basin), based on the recommendations
with three prestigious awards and recognitions during
from the river basin study done through Indian Institute of
FY 2024-25:
Science (IISc).
– First Prize in FICCI Sustainable Agriculture Awards
2024 in the ‘Natural Resource Management and The coverage of water stewardship programme currently
Climate Resilient Agriculture’ category for the Climate extends to 59 districts of 17 states. During the year,
Smart Village Programme the area under watershed increased by over 1.78 lakh
acres, taking the cumulative coverage area to 18.16 lakh
– IIT Madras CSR Awards 2024 under the theme
acres. Over 3,500 water-harvesting structures including
‘Technology-Driven Inclusive Social Impact’ for
ground water recharge structures were built during the
deployment of technology in Climate Smart Agriculture
year, creating 5.83 million kl of rainwater harvesting
– ‘Gold’ Prize in Financial Express Green Sarathi Award
potential. The total number of water-harvesting structures
2024, in the Water Stewardship category
reached to over 35,900 and the net water storage potential
to over 59.90 million kl. In addition, as part of demand
Natural Resources Management - Water Stewardship
management intervention, your Company continues
Programme
to work with farmers to achieve ‘more crop per drop’
The Water Stewardship programme aims to facilitate water
by promoting agronomic practices and micro irrigation
security for all dependents in the factory catchments and
techniques targeted towards saving water in cultivation
to drought-proof the agri-catchments to minimise risks to
and improving farmer incomes. Over 18 lakh acres across
agricultural livelihoods arising from drought and moisture
more than 15 crops in 12 states have been covered
stress. The programme is aligned to Jal Shakti Abhiyan,
during the year as part of demand management. Studies
the flagship initiative of Government of India for water
have been conducted by ICAR’s Agricultural Technology
conservation. The programme promotes the development
Application Research Institute, Kanpur, Indian Institute of
and management of local water resources in
Rice Research, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and
moisture-stressed areas by facilitating community
Vasantdada Sugar Institute to estimate water savings
participation in planning and implementing such
in rice, wheat, sugarcane, coconut and banana in
measures, as well as building, reviving and maintaining
your Company’s programme locations. Basis these
water-harvesting structures and thus conserving the
studies and other research documents, it is estimated
wetland ecosystems. In addition to rural and agri
focus, two urban water programmes are also being that the demand management practices promoted
implemented in Bengaluru and Chennai aimed at by your Company have led to potential water savings
addressing the challenges associated with urban water. to the tune of over 1,400 million kl during the year.
These programmes facilitate revival of urban water bodies, To improve water use efficiency, prototypes and pilots
targeted recharge of shallow aquifers and promotion also have been initiated to test efficacy of technologies
of practices like roof water harvesting and water like organic hydrogel, mobile drip system and smart
efficient taps. irrigation switches.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 103

[PAGE 122]
Report of the Board of Directors
Additionally, your Company is continuing existing native species tree planting in the catchments. During the
partnerships and forging new ones with multiple state year, your Company’s biodiversity conservation initiative
Government departments for Water Stewardship. covered over 1.76 lakh acres in 40 districts across
Your Company has signed three new partnerships 10 states, taking the cumulative area under biodiversity
during the year with: conservation to over 6.47 lakh acres. While the
conservation work is being carried out in village commons,
Water Resource Department, Government of
Maharashtra for Securing Godavari, Krishna and this intervention significantly benefits the agricultural
Tapi river basins flowing in Maharashtra by promoting activity in the vicinity of these plots through soil moisture
Water Literacy among the Water User Associations retention, carbon sequestration and by acting as host to
in 60 irrigation projects across 20 districts in these insects and birds beneficial to agriculture. Two technical
basins which will improve water resources. studies done earlier by ‘The Energy and Resources
Institute’ (TERI) & ‘IORA Ecological Solutions’ have
Department of Rural Development & Panchayat
recorded improvement in carbon stocks, i.e., carbon
Raj (RDPR), Government of Karnataka and
sequestered by trees, as well as floral and faunal
Vyakti Vikas Kendra India, for Water Resources
biodiversity compared to control areas. The project on
Development in South Pennar river basin to work
mangroves conservation, which are important biodiversity
on water stewardship programme in 12 Taluks and
reservoirs in coastal areas has been further strengthened.
238 Gram Panchayats in Bengaluru Urban,
Initiated in Andhra Pradesh in FY 2023-24, another
Bengaluru Rural, Kolar & Chikkaballapur districts
of Karnataka. 1,000 acres was conserved during the year, thus taking
the cumulative area to 1,500 acres. Alongside mangroves
Watershed Development and Soil Conservation
conservation, olive ridley turtle conservation was also
Department, Government of Rajasthan, to promote
taken up, wherein the eggs laid by turtles are protected
sustainable livelihoods based on a watershed
from natural predators by moving them to hatcheries
development project in 22 Gram Panchayats of
established along the coast and then releasing the
Bundi and Jhalawar districts covering an area of
hatchlings into sea. During the year, 9,200 turtle eggs
44,000 acres.
were successfully hatched and released into the sea.
Driven by your Company’s Water Stewardship
To increase the coverage for pastureland development
programme, three Cigarette units at Pune, Bengaluru &
and biodiversity conservation, your Company has a
Saharanpur, three Branded Packaged Foods units at
partnership with AP Panchayat Raj and Rural Development
Mysuru, Pune & Kapurthala, two Paperboards units at
Department to improve livelihoods and conserve village
Kovai & Bhadrachalam and GLT unit at Mysuru have
received AWS certifications in Platinum category till date. commons in nine districts. Your Company also has a
partnership with Wasteland & Pastureland Development
Natural Resources Management - Biodiversity Board (WPDB), Rajasthan targeting coverage of
2.5 lakh acres across eight districts. Till date,
The focus of the programme is on reviving ecosystem
1.75 lakh acres have been covered across 6,200 villages
services provided to agriculture such as natural regulation
of pests, pollination, nutrient cycling, soil health retention leveraging Government resources. In the partnership with
and genetic diversity, which have witnessed considerable Forest Department of Maharashtra, efforts towards soil
erosion over the past few decades. The said programme and moisture conservation in the forest and fringe areas
is also aligned to Government of India’s flagship initiatives of Pune district was progressed with Department staff
such as National Mission for Sustainable Habitat and trained by your Company in planning and implementing
Mangrove Initiative for Shoreline Habitats & Tangible the watershed work. Post training, Forest Department
Incomes (MISHTI). Biodiversity conservation is done took up soil and moisture conservation works and
through restoration of degraded village commons and tree plantation covering over 11,000 acres.
104 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025