[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 122-124

[PAGE 122]
Report of the Board of Directors
Additionally, your Company is continuing existing native species tree planting in the catchments. During the
partnerships and forging new ones with multiple state year, your Company’s biodiversity conservation initiative
Government departments for Water Stewardship. covered over 1.76 lakh acres in 40 districts across
Your Company has signed three new partnerships 10 states, taking the cumulative area under biodiversity
during the year with: conservation to over 6.47 lakh acres. While the
conservation work is being carried out in village commons,
Water Resource Department, Government of
Maharashtra for Securing Godavari, Krishna and this intervention significantly benefits the agricultural
Tapi river basins flowing in Maharashtra by promoting activity in the vicinity of these plots through soil moisture
Water Literacy among the Water User Associations retention, carbon sequestration and by acting as host to
in 60 irrigation projects across 20 districts in these insects and birds beneficial to agriculture. Two technical
basins which will improve water resources. studies done earlier by ‘The Energy and Resources
Institute’ (TERI) & ‘IORA Ecological Solutions’ have
Department of Rural Development & Panchayat
recorded improvement in carbon stocks, i.e., carbon
Raj (RDPR), Government of Karnataka and
sequestered by trees, as well as floral and faunal
Vyakti Vikas Kendra India, for Water Resources
biodiversity compared to control areas. The project on
Development in South Pennar river basin to work
mangroves conservation, which are important biodiversity
on water stewardship programme in 12 Taluks and
reservoirs in coastal areas has been further strengthened.
238 Gram Panchayats in Bengaluru Urban,
Initiated in Andhra Pradesh in FY 2023-24, another
Bengaluru Rural, Kolar & Chikkaballapur districts
of Karnataka. 1,000 acres was conserved during the year, thus taking
the cumulative area to 1,500 acres. Alongside mangroves
Watershed Development and Soil Conservation
conservation, olive ridley turtle conservation was also
Department, Government of Rajasthan, to promote
taken up, wherein the eggs laid by turtles are protected
sustainable livelihoods based on a watershed
from natural predators by moving them to hatcheries
development project in 22 Gram Panchayats of
established along the coast and then releasing the
Bundi and Jhalawar districts covering an area of
hatchlings into sea. During the year, 9,200 turtle eggs
44,000 acres.
were successfully hatched and released into the sea.
Driven by your Company’s Water Stewardship
To increase the coverage for pastureland development
programme, three Cigarette units at Pune, Bengaluru &
and biodiversity conservation, your Company has a
Saharanpur, three Branded Packaged Foods units at
partnership with AP Panchayat Raj and Rural Development
Mysuru, Pune & Kapurthala, two Paperboards units at
Department to improve livelihoods and conserve village
Kovai & Bhadrachalam and GLT unit at Mysuru have
received AWS certifications in Platinum category till date. commons in nine districts. Your Company also has a
partnership with Wasteland & Pastureland Development
Natural Resources Management - Biodiversity Board (WPDB), Rajasthan targeting coverage of
2.5 lakh acres across eight districts. Till date,
The focus of the programme is on reviving ecosystem
1.75 lakh acres have been covered across 6,200 villages
services provided to agriculture such as natural regulation
of pests, pollination, nutrient cycling, soil health retention leveraging Government resources. In the partnership with
and genetic diversity, which have witnessed considerable Forest Department of Maharashtra, efforts towards soil
erosion over the past few decades. The said programme and moisture conservation in the forest and fringe areas
is also aligned to Government of India’s flagship initiatives of Pune district was progressed with Department staff
such as National Mission for Sustainable Habitat and trained by your Company in planning and implementing
Mangrove Initiative for Shoreline Habitats & Tangible the watershed work. Post training, Forest Department
Incomes (MISHTI). Biodiversity conservation is done took up soil and moisture conservation works and
through restoration of degraded village commons and tree plantation covering over 11,000 acres.
104 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 123]
Report of the Board of Directors
Climate Smart Agriculture Smart Watersheds, and the other with Farmer Welfare
and Agriculture Development, Department of
The Climate Smart Agriculture programme attempts to
Madhya Pradesh covering 6 districts. During the year,
de-risk farmers from erratic weather events through the
training was conducted by ITC for the officials, post which
promotion and adaptation of a climate resilient approach
they have initiated work in 8,200 villages.
premised on dissemination of relevant package of
practices, adoption of appropriate mechanisation and During the year, knowledge was disseminated
provision of institutional services. The said programme through 13,500 Farmer Field Schools and over
is also aligned to Government of India’s flagship 17,600 Choupal Pradarshan Khets (CPKs).
initiative of The National Innovations in Climate Resilient 1,850 Agri Business Centres (ABC) including
Agriculture (NICRA) and other schemes for the welfare 620 exclusive women ABCs delivered extension services,
of farmers including Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi arranged agri-credit linkages, established collective
(PM-KISAN) Yojana. Currently, 31.70 lakh acres spread input procurement and provided agricultural equipment
over 100 districts across 19 states and 12 lakh farmers for hire.
including over 1.87 lakh women farmers are covered
Your Company, with its presence across multiple
under the programme. As per the studies done by reputed
commodities and geographies including the e-Choupal
ICAR - Agricultural Technology Application Research
network and agri extension programmes network,
Institute, Kanpur, the CSA practices promoted in rice
undertook an initiative to facilitate formation of new Farmer
and wheat crops together has demonstrated reduction of
Producer Organisations (FPOs) and/or strengthening
upto 21% in costs and upto 8% and 23% improvement
existing FPOs, thus enhancing farm incomes, rural
in yields and incomes respectively as compared to
livelihood and partnering in other relevant rural
conventional practices followed.
development initiatives. During the year, your Company
In pursuit of your Company’s long-term sustainability supported additional 390 FPOs taking the cumulative
objective of increasing Soil Organic Carbon (SOC), more number to 2,050 FPOs.
than 6,300 compost units were constructed during the
The ‘Adarsh Gram Programme’ pioneered by your
year, taking the total number till date to over 67,300 units.
Company’s Agri Business presently covers 484 model
In addition to promotion of Climate Smart Agri practices at
villages in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.
scale, in core agricultural catchments, your Company also
Under this initiative, your Company supports villages
has a Climate Smart Village (CSV) programme, wherein
to become economically, ecologically and socially
support is provided to majority of the village population
sustainable. Your Company is also addressing the human
to enable adaptation to climate risks, and mitigating the
rights and farm safety challenges in these villages by
same through knowledge dissemination, natural resources
educating the farmers, labour & community, providing
management, livelihood diversification and institutional
access to Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and
support. 7,000 CSVs covering major crop value chains
adopting smart technologies like drones for spraying
are currently part of the programme. To provide additional
activities on the farms.
support to farmers in dealing with climate risks, during the
year, 17.65 lakh linkages were facilitated for farmers with
Off-farm Livelihood Diversification - Livestock
six major Government schemes, taking the cumulative to
Development
over 42 lakhs.
The purpose of the programme is to improve income and
Details of Climate Smart Agriculture interventions are also
de-risk livelihoods of rural households by strengthening
provided in the section on ‘Socio-Economic Environment’.
animal dependant livelihood options. Capability building
Your Company continued work on two partnerships, one on improved package of practices, breed improvement,
with Rajiv Gandhi Mission for Watershed Management provision of extension services and creation of rural
covering 35 districts of Madhya Pradesh for Climate entrepreneurs to provide doorstep services are the key
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 105

[PAGE 124]
Report of the Board of Directors
components. Programme is aligned to Government of wood security. To create an additional income source
India’s National Livestock Mission (NLM). The programme and improve resilience towards climate change, fruit
covered livelihoods linked to large ruminants (cow & buffalo), and other commercial species tree plantations have also
small ruminants (goat & sheep), piggery, fishery, poultry been initiated with farmers, which have covered over
and apiary in 16 states and 42 districts. During the 40,000 acres till date.
year, about 1.34 lakh artificial inseminations (AIs) were
Together with your Company’s Farm Forestry programme,
carried out which led to the birth of over 0.47 lakh high
this initiative has covered around 13.2 lakh acres till date
yielding progeny and indigenous breeds. Cumulatively,
and generated over 240 million-person days of livelihood
the figures for AIs and calving stand at over 30.90 lakhs
for rural households, including women, poor tribal and
and 10.90 lakhs respectively. Under the programme,
marginal farmers. Further, fast growing, high yielding
1,870 women trained as ‘Pashu Sakhis’ have provided
and disease resistant hybrid clones and saplings of
extension services to animal owners of the villages.
eucalyptus pulpwood developed by your Company
Your Company is also working with dairy farmers in Bihar, deliver significantly higher productivity vis-a-vis earlier
Jharkhand and West Bengal to improve productivity of clones. The clones have been developed to grow under
animals through several extension services and to facilitate varying ecological conditions, thereby building resilience
higher milk production. Qualified teams comprising and contributing towards increasing income for the
veterinarians and para-veterinarians have been deployed farming community.
to facilitate animal nutrition, animal health services, training
Besides enhancing farm level employment, generating
and capacity building towards improving productivity,
incomes and increasing green cover, these large-scale
clean milk production and promoting commercial
initiatives also contribute meaningfully to the nation’s
dairy farming among farmers. During the year, about
endeavour to create additional carbon sinks for tackling
38,000 animals of over 19,000 dairy farmers across
climate change.
416 villages in nine districts of Bihar, three districts of
In addition to the above, the Social and Farm Forestry
West Bengal and two districts in Jharkhand were supported
initiative of your Company, through a multiplier effect, has
through cattle feed distribution, training programmes on
led to improvement in pulpwood and fuelwood availability
clean milk production, mastitis control and animal husbandry
in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Odisha.
services like deworming, ectoparasite control, etc.
Women Empowerment
On-farm Livelihood Diversification – Tree plantations
During the year, this initiative in catchment geographies
Your Company’s pioneering initiative through the
provided a range of gainful livelihood opportunities to
Social Forestry programme covered over 37,300 acres
over 2.67 lakh poor women, taking the cumulative coverage
during the year. The said programme is also aligned
to over 4.51 lakhs through livelihood interventions for
to Government of India’s National Afforestation
Self Help Groups (SHGs), women in agriculture and allied
Programme objectives. It is currently spread across
services, cadre of service providers in the community
16 districts in six states cumulatively covering
and ultra-poor women. This initiative is also aligned to
5.28 lakh acres in over 7,400 villages and 1.90 lakh poor
National Rural Livelihoods Mission’s objective of
households. Integral to the Social Forestry programme
empowering and creating Lakhpati Didis.
are the Agro-Forestry and Bund plantation models
that help small and marginal farmers to cultivate field Targeting Hardcore Poor programme focusing on
crops and trees together in the same field and realise empowering ultra-poor women through mentoring,
benefits of both annual income from crops and lumpsum skilling to run enterprises and asset support for the same
income from trees once in four years. These two models has covered about 40,680 women in your Company’s
cumulatively extended to over 2.68 lakh acres (part of core catchments through a two-year graduation
total Social Forestry area) and enabled food, fodder and intervention. Studies have shown that the income of these
106 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025