[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 40-42

[PAGE 40]
Report on Corporate Governance
Attendance at Securityholders Relationship Committee Meetings and Attendance during the financial year
Meetings 2024-25
Member No. of Meetings attended
Details of CSR and Sustainability Committee Meetings
A. K. Seth 1 5
Three meetings of the CSR and Sustainability Committee
S. Dutta 14
were held, as follows:
B. Sumant 13
H. Bhargava 2 6 Sl. Date Committee No. of Members
No. Strength present
M. Gupta 3 9
A. Nayak 4 9 1 15th April, 2024 8 6
1. Appointed as Chairman and Member of the Committee w.e.f. 27th October, 2024.
2 22nd May, 2024 8 7
2. Ceased to be Chairman and Member of the Committee w.e.f. 15th September, 2024, subsequent
to his appointment w.e.f. 23rd May, 2024.
3 22nd October, 2024 7 7
3. Ceased to be Chairman and Member of the Committee w.e.f. 27th October, 2024; appointed as
Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
4. Ceased to be Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 23rd May, 2024 and Member
w.e.f. 27th October, 2024. Attendance at CSR and Sustainability Committee
IV. CSR AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE Meetings
The role of the CSR Committee of the Board, under the
Member No. of Meetings attended
nomenclature ‘CSR and Sustainability Committee’, is
inter alia to review, monitor and provide strategic direction S. Puri 3
to the Company’s CSR and sustainability practices towards
fulfilling its “triple bottom line” objectives. The Committee C. K. Mishra 1 N.A.
seeks to guide the Company in crafting unique models
S. Mohanty 2 N.A.
to support creation of sustainable livelihoods together
with environmental re-generation. Formulating and S. Mukherjee 1 N.A.
monitoring the CSR Policy, the Sustainability Policies
and the annual CSR Action Plan, including making A. Pande 3 1
recommendation to the Board as necessary, form
S. Panray 3
part of the role of the Committee. The Committee also
approves the Sustainability Report, besides reviewing the
N. Rao 1
Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report of
the Company and recommending the same to the A. Singh 4 3
Board for adoption.
M. Gupta 5 3
Composition
R. Jain 6 1
The CSR and Sustainability Committee presently comprises
the Chairman of the Company and seven Non-Executive A. K. Seth 5 3
Directors, three of whom are Independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Company is the Chairman of M. Shankar 7 2
the Committee. The Company Secretary is the Secretary
1. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 27th October, 2024.
to the Committee.
2. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 1st January, 2025.
The names of the members of the CSR and Sustainability 3. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 27th July, 2024.
4. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024.
Committee, including its Chairman, are provided under
5. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 27th October, 2024.
the section ‘Board of Directors and Committees’ in the
6. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 31st May, 2024.
Report and Accounts. 7. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
The CSR and Sustainability Committee provides strategic
direction to the Company’s CSR and Sustainability practices
towards fulfilling its Triple Bottom Line objectives.
22 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 41]
Report on Corporate Governance
V. INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS COMMITTEE OTHER COMMITTEES
The statutory role of the Independent Directors Committee
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
of the Board is to review the performance of the
The role of the Risk Management Committee is, inter alia,
non-Independent Directors, including the Chairman of the
to approve the strategic risk management framework of
Company, and the Board, and also to assess the quality,
the Company, and review the risk mitigation strategies,
quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the
measures taken for cyber security and results of
Company management and the Board. risk identification, prioritisation & mitigation plans for all
business units / corporate functions. Formulation of the
Composition
Risk Management Policy and review of implementation,
The Independent Directors Committee comprises all the effectiveness and adequacy of the risk management
Independent Directors of the Company. plans, systems & processes of the Company form part of
the role of the Committee.
The names of the members of the Independent Directors
Committee are provided under the section ‘Board of
Composition
Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
The Risk Management Committee presently comprises
Meeting and Attendance during the financial year the Chairman of the Company, all Executive Directors,
2024-25 one Independent Director and one member of
senior management. The Chairman of the Company
Details of Independent Directors Committee Meeting
is the Chairman of the Committee. The Head of
One meeting of the Independent Directors Committee Internal Audit is an Invitee to the meetings of the
was held, as follows: Committee. The Chief Risk Officer is the Secretary to
the Committee.
Sl. Date Committee No. of Members
No. Strength present The names of the members of the Risk Management
Committee, including its Chairman, are provided below:
1 9th May, 2024 10 10
S. Puri Chairman
Attendance at Independent Directors Committee Meeting
H. Bhargava Member
Member Attendance at the Meeting
S. Dutta Member
H. Bhargava Yes
H. Malik Member
A. M. Bharucha Yes
B. Sumant Member
C. K. Mishra 1 N.A.
S. Sivakumar Member
S. Mukherjee Yes
Meetings and Attendance during the financial year
A. Nayak Yes
2024-25
N. Rao Yes
Details of Risk Management Committee Meetings
A. K. Seth Yes
Three meetings of the Risk Management Committee were
P. Subrahmanyam 2 Yes
held, as follows:
S. Banerjee 3 Yes
Sl. Date Committee No. of Members
A. Duggal 4 Yes
No. Strength present
M. Shankar 4 Yes
1 9th August, 2024 6 6
1. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 14th September, 2024.
2 18th January, 2025 6 5
2. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024.
3. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 30th July, 2024. 3 11th March, 2025 6 6
4. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 23

[PAGE 42]
Report on Corporate Governance
Attendance at Risk Management Committee Meetings SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
All subsidiaries of the Company are managed by their
Member No. of Meetings attended
respective Board of Directors in the best interest of
S. Puri 3
those companies and their shareholders. The annual
H. Bhargava 1 2 financial statements of the subsidiary companies are
S. Dutta 3 reviewed by the Audit Committee of the Company.
Performance review reports of the subsidiary companies
H. Malik 3
are placed before the Board of Directors of the Company
B. Sumant 3
on a half-yearly basis. The Minutes of Board Meetings of
S. Sivakumar 2
the subsidiary companies, including details of significant
A. Duggal 2 1 transactions & arrangements entered into by them, are
also placed before the Board of Directors of the Company.
1. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
2. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
The Company does not have any material
CORPORATE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE subsidiary. The Company’s Policy for determination
The primary role of the CMC is strategic management of a material subsidiary, as approved by the Board,
of the Company’s businesses within Board approved may be accessed on its corporate website at
direction / framework and realisation of Company goals. https://www.itcportal.com/material-subsidiary-policy .
The CMC, inter alia, formulates the Company’s Business
FAMILIARISATION PROGRAMME FOR DIRECTORS
Plans and organisational policies, systems & processes,
reviews business performance against approved plans, ITC believes that a Board, which is well informed /
allocates resources, and operates under the strategic familiarised with the Company and its affairs, can
supervision of the Board.
contribute significantly to effectively discharge its role
of trusteeship in a manner that fulfils stakeholders’
Composition
aspirations and societal expectations. In pursuit of this,
The CMC presently comprises the Chairman of the
the Directors of the Company are updated on material
Company, all Executive Directors and three members of
changes / developments in the domestic / global corporate
senior management. The Chairman of the Company is the
and industry scenario including those pertaining to statutes /
Chairman of the Committee. The composition of the CMC
is determined by the Board on the recommendation legislations & economic environment, and on matters
of the Nomination & Compensation Committee. significantly affecting the Company to enable them to take
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the CMC. well informed and timely decisions. The Directors are also
kept abreast on all business related matters including
The names of the members of the CMC, including its
Chairman, are provided under the section ‘Board of risk assessment & minimisation procedures, CSR &
Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts. sustainability interventions, succession plans including
management development processes, and new initiatives
Meetings
proposed by the Company. Induction programme is
The CMC normally meets once a month. Minutes of
organised by the Company for the Non-Executive Directors
CMC Meetings are placed before the Board. Matters
joining the Board. Visits to Company facilities are also
requiring the Board’s attention / approval, as emanating
organised for the Directors from time to time.
from the CMC Meetings, are placed before the Board
Further details may be accessed on the Company’s
in the form of notes from / through the relevant
Executive Director, backed by comprehensive corporate website at https://www.itcportal.com/directors-
background information. familiarisation-programme .
24 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025