[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 97-99

[PAGE 97]
Report of the Board of Directors
For the year under review: are planned towards building a robust talent supply
chain with focus on employee-centricity and fostering a
a. ITC Infotech India Limited recorded Revenue from
high-performance culture.
Operations of ` 3204.32 crores (previous year
` 2869.29 crores) and Net Profit of ` 466.62 crores The company is well poised to craft the next horizon of
(previous year ` 382.21 crores). The company growth in the years ahead driven by focused strategies
paid a total dividend of ` 53.75 per Equity Share of to identify go to market opportunities, building capabilities
` 10/- each aggregating ` 488.32 crores (previous year through platforms and offerings and capacity building to
` 55.50 per Equity Share of ` 10/- each aggregating drive scale.
` 488.40 crores).
Technico Agri Sciences Limited
b. ITC Infotech Limited, UK, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the company, recorded Revenue of GBP 28.80 million During the year under review, potato production in India
(previous year GBP 34.11 million) and Net Profit of stood at 57 million MT, representing a decline of 5% over
GBP 1.33 million (previous year GBP 1.49 million). the previous year. Lower potato production resulted in a
significant rise in potato prices during the year.
c. ITC Infotech (USA), Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary
of the company, together with its wholly-owned Leveraging its institutional strengths and strong brand
subsidiary Indivate Inc., recorded Revenue of value, the company continued to enhance its market
US$ 160.71 million (previous year US$ 158.58 million) standing by entering new potato growing markets and
and Net Profit of US$ 6.53 million (previous year expanding presence in existing ones. The company’s
US$ 6.69 million). second greenhouse facility, located at Panchkula, was
commissioned during the year to augment capacity and
d. In the recent past, ITC Infotech India Limited has
service the growing demand from institutional customers.
also set up subsidiary companies in Brazil, Mexico,
France, Germany, Italy, Malaysia and Saudi Arabia. The company’s leadership in production of early generation
Please refer to Form AOC-1 (Statement containing seed potatoes and strength in agronomy continue
salient features of the financial statements of to support the ‘Bingo!’ range of potato chips of your
Subsidiaries / Associate companies / Joint Ventures), Company and in servicing the seed potato requirements
forming part of the Report and Accounts, for details of the farmer base of your Company’s Agri Business.
on financial performance of these companies.
The company’s Revenue from Operations stood at
e. The consolidated results of the company include ` 383.68 crores (previous year ` 323.95 crores) with
Revenue of ` 98.43 crores and Net Loss of Net Profit of ` 83.76 crores (previous year ` 37.81 crores).
` 3.38 crores recorded by Blazeclan Technologies Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at
Private Limited and its wholly owned subsidiaries ` 83.71 crores (previous year ` 37.82 crores).
post 1st October, 2024, i.e. the date of acquisition.
The company continues to leverage its deep domain
Consequent to the acquisition, 10 wholly owned
expertise, strengthen relationships with global seed
subsidiaries of Blazeclan across several countries
breeders and farmers to introduce high yield and climate
including Singapore, Australia, Malaysia, Belgium,
resilient seed varieties to fortify its leadership position in
New Zealand, USA, Canada and Philippines have
the seed potato industry.
become step down subsidiaries of the company.
Technico Pty Limited and its subsidiaries
Going forward, ITC Infotech seeks to augment its portfolio
of technology offerings across select industry verticals, The company continues to focus on upgradation
develop new platforms & accelerators and strengthen its and commercialisation of its TECHNITUBER ® Seed
alliance ecosystem through partnerships with hyperscalers Technology and customising the agronomy practices
and platform providers in identified capability areas such for deployment across various geographies. Further,
as GenAI, Digital, Data & Analytics, Cloud, Infrastructure the company is also engaged in the marketing of
Services and ERP Systems. Strategic interventions TECHNITUBER ® seed produced at the facilities of its
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 79

[PAGE 98]
Report of the Board of Directors
subsidiary in China and Technico Agri Sciences Limited, The company’s Revenue from Operations for the year
India, a wholly-owned subsidiary of your Company, to stood at ` 158.87 crores (previous year ` 154.07 crores),
global customers. For the year under review: while Net Profit for the year was ` 13.63 crores (previous
year ` 14.90 crores). Total Comprehensive Income
a. Technico Pty Limited, Australia registered a turnover
for the year stood at ` 13.60 crores (previous year
of Australian Dollars (A$) 2.86 million (previous year
` 14.89 crores).
A$ 1.69 million) and a Net Profit of A$ 1.51 million
(previous year A$ 0.81 million). For FY 2024-25, the Board of Directors of the company
has recommended a final dividend of ` 2.00 per
b. Technico Technologies Inc., Canada has wound
equity share of ` 10 each, aggregating ` 14.60 crores
down its seed business operations and is exploring
(previous year final dividend of ` 2.00 per equity share of
other business opportunities in Canada.
` 10 each, aggregating ` 14.60 crores).
c. Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited, Australia, and
Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited, China –
ITC IndiVision Limited
there were no significant events to report with respect
The company is engaged in manufacture and export
to the above companies.
of nicotine and nicotine derivative products. The
Wimco Limited company’s manufacturing facility, situated near Mysuru
has the capability to produce purest nicotine derivatives
The company’s business activities comprise fabrication
conforming to US and EU pharmacopoeia standards.
and assembly of machinery for tube filling, cartoning,
The company undertook extensive product development
wrapping, material handling including conveyor
initiatives, customer trials and business development
solutions and engineering services for the FMCG and
efforts and is well poised to rapidly scale up business
Pharmaceutical industries.
going forward.
During the year, the company monetised the value
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of
of certain identified assets relating to the engineering
` 10.51 crores (previous year ` 1.19 crores) and Net Loss
business thereby strengthening its Balance Sheet.
of ` 55.56 crores (previous year loss of ` 31.12 crores),
The company’s Revenue from Operations for the year
primarily on account of gestation costs and depreciation.
stood at ` 2.60 crores (previous year: ` 3.47 crores)
with a Net Profit of ` 1.45 crores (previous year loss of ITC Fibre Innovations Limited (IFIL)
` 1.88 crores). Total Comprehensive Income for the year
The company manufactures Moulded Fibre Products
stood at ` 1.45 crores (previous year (-) `1.93 crores).
made from renewable natural fibres such as wood and
offers sustainable solutions across industries including
North East Nutrients Private Limited
food service & delivery, FMCG and electronics.
Your Company holds 76% equity stake in North East
Nutrients Private Limited, which has set up a food Commercial production at the company’s state-of-the-art
processing facility in Mangaldoi, Assam, to cater to the manufacturing facility at Badiyakhedi, Madhya Pradesh
biscuits market in Assam and other north-eastern states. commenced in March 2024.
The company continues to focus on consistently improving During the year, the company obtained multiple
operational efficiency and productivity. In recognition of certifications affirming that its products are food contact
its high standards of quality, the company received three safe and environment friendly and conform with the
Gold Awards at the Convention on Quality Concepts 2024, requirements under US Food and Drug Administration,
organised by the Quality Circle Forum of India, German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment and Indian
Durgapur Chapter. The company also received one FSSAI regulations. These certifications enable IFIL
Gold and one Silver Award at the National POKA-YOKE to differentiate its offerings with both domestic and
competition and a Silver Award in the FACE Food Safety international customers. The commercial sales were
& Quality Kaizen Competition, 2024 organised by CII. scaled up during the year post extensive product
80 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 99]
Report of the Board of Directors
development efforts and customer trials. Going forward, ` 10 each, aggregating ` 22.56 crores (previous year
IFIL will leverage the expertise of the Business in fibre ` 14.10 per Equity Share of ` 10 each, aggregating
value chain, manufacturing excellence and strong ` 22.56 crores).
sustainability credentials to rapidly scale-up business
Greenacre Holdings Limited
with continued focus on developing innovative plastic
substitution solutions. During the year ended The company provides maintenance services for
31st March 2025, the company recorded Total Income commercial office buildings, EPC (engineering,
of ` 4.61 crores (previous year ` 1.26 crores) with procurement, construction) management services as well
Net Loss of ` 21.41 crores (previous year loss of as project management consultancy services.
` 3.56 crores), primarily on account of gestation costs
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of
and depreciation.
` 13.46 crores (previous year ` 11.61 crores) and
Net Profit of ` 7.23 crores (previous year ` 2.82 crores).
Russell Credit Limited
The company recorded Total Income of ` 71.91 crores ITC Integrated Business Services Limited
(previous year ` 60.91 crores) and Net Profit of
The company is in the business of providing support to the
` 47.49 crores (previous year ` 39.39 crores). Growth in
Business Shared Services operations of your Company
Total Income was driven by higher surplus liquidity and
and its related entities.
increase in yield of the funds deployed on account of
During the year, the company recorded Total Income
higher market interest rates.
of ` 21.50 crores (previous year ` 12.78 crores) and
During the year, the company transferred its investments Net Profit of ` 1.41 crores (previous year ` 0.60 crore).
in EIH Limited and HLV Limited to your Company at their
respective cost of acquisition which led to reversal of MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited
the mark-to-market gain on the said investments. As a
The company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
result, Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at
ITC Integrated Business Services Limited, holds
(-) ` 484.29 crores (previous year ` 442.67 crores).
tenancy rights in a commercial building located in
Temporary surplus liquidity of the company is mainly Mumbai and also provides estate maintenance services.
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of
deployed in bonds, debt mutual funds, bank fixed
` 7.58 lakh (previous year ` 7.38 lakh) and Net Profit of
deposits, certificate of deposits, etc. The company
` 0.41 lakh (previous year ` 0.66 lakh).
continues to closely monitor its investments in line with
market interest rate movements and explore opportunities
Pavan Poplar Limited
to make strategic investments for the ITC Group.
The operations of the company continue to be adversely
For FY 2024-25, the company declared final dividend
impacted pursuant to the Order of the Honourable High Court
of ` 0.36 per Equity Share of ` 10 each, aggregating
of Uttarakhand at Nainital in February 2014 dismissing
` 23.27 crores (previous year final dividend of
the Writ Petition filed by the company against the
` 0.30 per Equity Share of ` 10 each, aggregating
Order of the District Magistrate authorising the
` 19.39 crores).
State authorities to take possession of the land leased to
the company. The company had filed an appeal against
Gold Flake Corporation Limited
the aforementioned order of the Honourable High Court
The company holds 50% equity stake in ITC Filtrona Limited. in 2014, which has been pending adjudication.
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of Considering the time and resources involved, the company
` 25.11 crores (previous year ` 24.82 crores) and Net Profit of has since withdrawn the said appeal with the approval of the
` 23.80 crores (previous year ` 23.12 crores). The company Honourable High Court on 7th March 2025. During the year,
declared interim dividend of ` 14.10 per Equity Share of the company recorded Total Income of ` 0.18 crore
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 81