[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 228-230

[PAGE 228]
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of ITC Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Ind AS Financial Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with
Statements the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit
of the financial statements under the provisions of the
Opinion
Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our
We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
financial statements of ITC Limited (“the Company”),
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that
which comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025,
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
the Statement of Profit and Loss, including Other
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Cash Flows
standalone Ind AS financial statements.
and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year
Key Audit Matters
then ended, and notes to the standalone Ind AS financial
statements, including a summary of material accounting Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional
policies and other explanatory information. judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
standalone Ind AS financial statements for the financial year
In our opinion and to the best of our information and
ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid
the context of our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial
standalone Ind AS financial statements give the information
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon,
required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
(“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a true
For each matter below, our description of how our audit
and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles
addressed the matter is provided in that context.
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the
Company as at March 31, 2025, its profit including other We have determined the matters described below to be
comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
equity for the year ended on that date. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the standalone Ind
Basis for Opinion
AS financial statements section of our report, including in
We conducted our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included
statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing the performance of procedures designed to respond to
(SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of the Act. our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further the standalone Ind AS financial statements. The results of
described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit our audit procedures, including the procedures performed
of the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements’ section to address the matters below, provide the basis for our
of our report. We are independent of the Company audit opinion on the accompanying standalone Ind AS
in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the financial statements.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods (hereinafter referred Our audit procedures included the following:
to as “Revenue”) is recognised when the Company
Assessed the Company’s revenue recognition
performs its obligations to its customers and the amount accounting policies in line with Ind AS 115 (“Revenue
of revenue can be measured reliably and recovery from Contracts with Customers”) and tested thereof.
of the consideration is probable. The timing of such
Evaluated the integrity of the general information
recognition in case of sale of goods is when the control
and technology control environment and testing the
over the same is transferred to the customer, which is
operating effectiveness of key IT application controls
mainly upon delivery.
over recognition of revenue.
The timing of revenue recognition is relevant to Evaluated the design, implementation and operating
the reported performance of the Company. The effectiveness of Company’s controls in respect of
management considers revenue as a key measure for revenue recognition.
210 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 229]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
evaluation of performance. There is a risk of revenue Tested the effectiveness of such controls over
being recorded before control is transferred. revenue cut off at year-end.
Refer Note 1 to the Standalone Ind AS Financial On sample basis, tested supporting documentation
Statements - Material Accounting Policies and Note for sales transactions recorded during the year which
22A / 22B. included sales invoices, customer contracts and
shipping documents.
Performed an increased level of substantive testing
in respect of sales transactions recorded during the
period closer to the year end and subsequent to the
year end.
Compared revenue with historical trends and where
appropriate, conducted further enquiries and testing.
Assessed disclosures in financial statements in
respect of revenue, as specified in Ind AS 115.
Accounting for demerger of Hotels business
The Company, in the current year, has given effect to Our audit procedures included the following:
the scheme of demerger of Hotels business (demerged
Obtained and read the Scheme and final order passed
undertaking) into ITC Hotels Limited (ITCHL) pursuant
by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal to
to the Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’). The Scheme
understand its key terms and conditions.
was approved by the Hon’ble National Company
Evaluated the design and tested the operating
Law Tribunal, Kolkata bench vide its order dated
effectiveness of the internal financial controls
October 04, 2024 and the appointed date and the
(including management review controls) relevant
effective date of the Scheme is January 01, 2025.
for recording the impact of the Scheme and related
By virtue of this scheme being effective in the current
disclosures.
year, the said demerged undertaking has been disclosed
Tested the Management’s working for identification
as discontinued operations till the effective date of the
of specific assets and liabilities of the demerged
demerger.
undertaking and relevant impact in the reserves as
At the appointed and effective date, the Hotels business
per the Scheme.
of the Company (along with all assets and liabilities
Assessed the appropriateness of accounting
thereof, excluding ITC Grand Central, Mumbai) and the
treatment of this demerger and compared with
investments held by the Company in Hospitality entities
applicable Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) and
as defined in the Scheme were transferred to ITCHL on
the approved accounting treatment in the Scheme.
a going concern basis in accordance with the approved
Scheme. Obtained the report of the management’s expert for
determination of fair value of demerged undertaking.
Demerger is a significant non-routine transaction
Evaluated the competence and objectivity of the
and requires determination of fair value of demerged
management’s expert.
undertaking for the purposes of accounting as
per Ind AS which involves significant judgements Involved our valuation specialist to review the
and estimates which are sensitive to underlying appropriateness of methodology and key assumptions
assumptions (forecast of future cash flows, growth rate, considered by management to determine fair value of
weighted average cost of capital, discount rates etc). the demerged undertaking.
These judgements / estimates could have an impact
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the
on the recognition of the amount of liability for assets
disclosures made with respect to the accounting of
to be distributed to shareholders at fair value and the
the transaction as required by the applicable Ind AS.
consequential gain as recognised in the standalone Ind
AS financial statements.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 211

[PAGE 230]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Due to the magnitude and complexity of the transaction,
and considering the assumptions and estimates
required to be made by the management for the
purpose of accounting and presentation / disclosures
in the standalone Ind AS financial statements, this is
considered as a key audit matter.
Refer Note 29(x) to the standalone Ind AS financial
statements.
We have determined that there are no other key audit making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
matters to communicate in our report. prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance
of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating
Information Other than the Financial Statements and
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of
Auditor’s Report Thereon
the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements
other information. The other information comprises the
that give a true and fair view and are free from material
information included in the Annual Report, but does not
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
include the standalone Ind AS financial statements and
In preparing the standalone Ind AS financial statements,
our auditor’s report thereon.
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s
Our opinion on the standalone Ind AS financial statements
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
does not cover the other information and we do not
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
going concern basis of accounting unless management
In connection with our audit of the standalone Ind AS either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
information and, in doing so, consider whether such other
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for
information is materially inconsistent with the standalone
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Ind AS financial statements or our knowledge obtained in
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of this other information, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to whether the standalone Ind AS financial statements as
report in this regard. a whole are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
Responsibilities of Management for the Standalone
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high
Ind AS Financial Statements
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can
preparation of these standalone Ind AS financial statements
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,
that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
performance including other comprehensive income, cash
expected to influence the economic decisions of users
flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance
taken on the basis of these standalone Ind AS financial
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,
statements.
including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise
under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies
professional judgement and maintain professional
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended.
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement
the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and of the standalone Ind AS financial statements,
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; whether due to fraud or error, design and perform
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
212 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025