[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 35-37

[PAGE 35]
Report on Corporate Governance
Attendance at Board Meetings and at AGM during the reliability of financial and other management
financial year 2024-25 (Contd.) information and adequacy of disclosures.
Director No. of Board Attendance at compliance with all relevant statutes.
Meetings attended last AGM The role of the Committee includes the following:
A. Singh 4 6 Yes (a) To oversee the Company’s financial reporting process
P. Subrahmanyam 5 6 Yes and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure
that the financial statements are correct, sufficient and
S. Banerjee 6 2 Yes
credible;
A. Duggal 7 3 Yes
(b) To recommend the appointment, remuneration and
M. Gupta 8 4 Yes removal of the Auditors;
R. Jain 9 1 N.A. (c) To recommend the appointment of the Chief Financial
M. Shankar 7 3 Yes Officer of the Company;
(d) To approve transactions with related parties, including
1. Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. 14th September, 2024.
modifications thereto;
2. Appointed as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 1st January, 2025.
3. Appointed as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 27th July, 2024. (e) To evaluate the Company’s internal financial controls
4. Appointed as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024.
5. Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024. and risk management systems;
6. Ceased to be Independent Director w.e.f. 30th July, 2024 upon completion of term.
(f) To review with the management, the following:
7. Ceased to be Independent Director w.e.f. 15th September, 2024 upon completion of term.
8. Resigned as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 27th October, 2024. (i) Annual financial statements and Auditor’s Report
9. Resigned as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 31st May, 2024.
thereon;
(ii) Quarterly and half-yearly financial results and
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
Auditor’s Report / Limited Review Report thereon;
Currently, there are five Board Committees –
(g) To review the following:
the Audit Committee, the Nomination & Compensation
(i) Management discussion and analysis of
Committee, the Securityholders Relationship Committee,
financial condition & results of operations, and
the CSR and Sustainability Committee and the
matters required to be included in the Directors’
Independent Directors Committee. The terms of reference of
Responsibility Statement;
these Committees are determined by the Board from time
(ii) Adequacy of internal control systems and the
to time, other than the Independent Directors Committee
Company’s statement on the same, in consultation
the terms of reference of which are as prescribed under law.
with the management, the Statutory Auditors and
Meetings of Board Committees are normally convened by the
the Internal Auditors;
respective Committee Chairman. Matters requiring the Board’s
(iii) Adequacy and effectiveness of internal control
attention / approval, as emanating from the Board Committee
systems laid down in the Company for compliance
Meetings, are placed before the Board with clearance of the
with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange
Committee Chairman. All recommendations made by the
Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading)
Board Committees during the year were accepted by the Board.
Regulations, 2015;
Minutes of Board Committee Meetings are placed before
(iv) Internal Audit Reports including any significant
the Board. The role and composition of these Committees,
findings and follow-up thereon;
including the number of meetings held during the
(v) Statutory Auditors’ independence and performance,
financial year and the related attendance, are provided below.
and effectiveness of the audit process;
(vi) S ystem for maintenance, storage, retrieval, security etc.
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE
of books of accounts in the electronic form;
The Audit Committee provides reassurance to the
(vii) F unctioning of Whistleblower mechanism in the
Board on the existence of an effective internal control
Company;
environment that ensures:
(viii) Annual financial statements, including investments,
efficiency and effectiveness of operations. of subsidiary companies;
safeguarding of assets and adequacy of provisions for (ix) Utilisation of loans and / or advances and investments
all liabilities. by the Company to / in the subsidiary companies.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 17

[PAGE 36]
Report on Corporate Governance
Composition Attendance at Audit Committee Meetings
The Audit Committee presently comprises four Member No. of Meetings attended
Independent Directors. The Chairman of the Committee
H. Bhargava 1 12
is also an Independent Director. The Executive Director
A. M. Bharucha 2 6
representing the Finance function, the Chief Financial
S. Mukherjee 11
Officer, the Head of Internal Audit and the representative
S. Banerjee 3 4
of the Statutory Auditors are Invitees to the meetings
A. Duggal 4 6
of the Audit Committee. The Head of Internal Audit
is the Coordinator and the Company Secretary is the 1. Appointed as Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
2. Appointed as Member w.e.f. 2nd August, 2024.
Secretary to the Committee. The representatives of the 3. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 30th July, 2024.
4. Ceased to be Chairman and Member of the Committee w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
Cost Auditors are invited to meetings of the Committee
whenever matters relating to cost audit are considered. II. NOMINATION & COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
All members of the Committee are financially literate; The Nomination and Remuneration Committee of the Board,
two members, including the Chairman of the Committee, under the nomenclature ‘Nomination & Compensation
have accounting and financial management expertise. Committee’, inter alia, identifies persons qualified
to become Directors and recommends to the Board
The names of the members of the Audit Committee, including
the appointment, remuneration and removal of the
its Chairman, are provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and senior management. The Committee’s
Directors and Committees’ in the Report and Accounts. role also includes formulation of criteria for evaluation of
performance of the Directors & the Board as a whole, and
Meetings and Attendance during the financial year administration of the Employee Stock Option Schemes of
2024-25 the Company.
Details of Audit Committee Meetings Composition
The Nomination & Compensation Committee presently
Twelve meetings of the Audit Committee were held,
comprises three Independent Directors and the Chairman
as follows:
of the Company. The Chairman of the Committee is an
Independent Director. The Company Secretary is the
Sl. Date Committee No. of Members
Secretary to the Committee.
No. Strength present
The names of the members of the Nomination &
1 8th April, 2024 4 4
Compensation Committee, including its Chairman, are
provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and
2 8th May, 2024 4 4
Committees’ in the Report and Accounts.
3 23rd May, 2024 4 4
Meetings and Attendance during the financial year
4 5th July, 2024 4 4 2024-25
5 1st August, 2024 3 3 Details of Nomination & Compensation Committee
Meetings
6 13th September, 2024 4 3
Four meetings of the Nomination & Compensation
7 24th October, 2024 3 3 Committee were held, as follows:
8 17th December, 2024 3 3 Sl. Date Committee No. of Members
No. Strength present
9 30th December, 2024 3 3
1 22nd May, 2024 5 5
10 16th January, 2025 3 3
2 31st July, 2024 4 4
11 6th February, 2025 3 2
3 22nd October, 2024 3 3
12 31st March, 2025 3 3 4 15th January, 2025 3 3
18 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 37]
Report on Corporate Governance
Attendance at Nomination & Compensation Committee approval of the Shareholders. The Chairman and each of
Meetings the Executive Directors are entitled to performance bonus
for every financial year up to a maximum of 300% and
Member No. of Meetings attended
200% of their basic / consolidated salary, respectively, as
A. Nayak 1 4
may be determined by the Board on the recommendation
S. Puri 4
of the Nomination & Compensation Committee; such
A. K. Seth 4 remuneration is linked to the performance of the Company
S. Banerjee 2 1 inasmuch as the performance bonus is based on
M. Shankar 3 2 various qualitative and quantitative performance criteria.
Apart from fixed elements of remuneration and benefits /
1. Appointed as Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 15th April, 2024.
2. Ceased to be Chairman of the Committee w.e.f. 15th April, 2024 and Member w.e.f. 30th July, 2024. perquisites, the Chairman and the Executive Directors
3. Ceased to be Member w.e.f. 15th September, 2024.
are also eligible for Long Term Incentives, including
Remuneration Policy Stock Options and Equity Settled Stock Appreciation Rights,
ITC’s Remuneration strategy is performance based, as may be determined by the Nomination & Compensation
competitive and values led. It is designed to reward holistic Committee and / or the Board; such incentives are linked to
performance that is in congruence with the Company’s individual performance and the overall performance of the
“triple bottom line” approach to business, to attract & retain Company, including performance against Sustainability
high quality talent and is anchored on ITC’s values, goals. The maximum annual value of such Long Term
all of which are integral in pursuit of the Company’s vision Incentives is 0.10% and 0.05% for the Chairman and each
and mission of enhancing the wealth generating capability of the Executive Directors, respectively, of the net profits of
of the enterprise in a globalised environment, while the Company for the immediately preceding financial year.
delivering superior and sustainable stakeholder value.
Non-Executive Directors, including Independent Directors,
The Remuneration Policy of the Company is market-led
are entitled to remuneration by way of commission for
and factors in the competitive context of each business.
each financial year, ranging between ` 1,00,00,000/-
Performance against the Sustainability goals of the
and ` 1,30,00,000/-, individually, as approved by the
Company has also been included as a factor in assessing
Shareholders. Non-Executive Directors’ commission is
business performance which, in turn, contributes in
determined by the Board, based inter alia on Company
determining remuneration. The Company has adopted a
performance and regulatory provisions, and is payable
comprehensive ‘Total Rewards’ approach to remuneration
on a uniform basis to reinforce the principle of collective
that, inter alia, promotes a superior quality of personal
responsibility. Non-Executive Directors are also entitled to
and work life by combining both cash and non-cash
sitting fees for attending the meetings of the Board and its
components / benefits.
Committees. The sitting fees as determined by the Board
The Company’s Policy on remuneration of Directors,
are ` 1,00,000/- for each meeting of the Board,
Key Managerial Personnel and other employees, as approved
` 50,000/- for each meeting of the Audit Committee,
by the Board, may be accessed on its corporate website
Nomination & Compensation Committee, CSR and
at https://www.itcportal.com/remuneration-policy .
Sustainability Committee and Independent Directors
There has been no change in the Policy during the year.
Committee, and ` 10,000/- for each meeting of the
Remuneration of Directors Securityholders Relationship Committee; sitting fees for
Remuneration of the Chairman and the Executive Directors each meeting of the Risk Management Committee is
is determined by the Board on the recommendation of the ` 50,000/-. Non-Executive Directors are also eligible for
Nomination & Compensation Committee, subject to the coverage under Personal Accident Insurance.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 19