[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 240-242

[PAGE 240]
Guide to Subsidiaries / Joint Ventures / Associates
Subsidiaries of ITC Limited I2A owns 100% of the shareholding of Indivate Inc.
incorporated as a New Jersey Corporation.
Surya Nepal Private Limited, Nepal
On 1st October 2024, I3L acquired 100% of the equity
Shareholding share capital of BTPL which is primarily engaged in the
59% held by ITC Limited. business of providing end-to-end cloud based solutions
and services. BTPL owns 100% of the shareholding of:
Nature of Business
Cloudlytics Technologies Private Limited
Manufacture and sale of cigarettes & branded packaged
Blazeclan Technologies PTE Ltd., Singapore
food products.
Blazeclan Technologies SDN. BHD., Malaysia
Subsidiary
Blazeclan Technologies Pty. Limited, Australia
Surya Nepal Ventures Private Limited, a wholly owned
Blazeclan Europe SRL., Belgium
subsidiary, is engaged in the business of manufacture and
Blazeclan Technologies Inc., Canada
sale of agarbattis.
Blazeclan Technologies LLC, USA
North East Nutrients Private Limited
Blazeclan Americas Inc., USA and
Shareholding Blazeclan Technologies Corporation, Philippines (BTC)#
76% held by ITC Limited. # Ownership include shareholding by two Directors of BTC,
who hold one share each in BTC.
Nature of Business
Blazeclan Technologies Pty. Limited, Australia, owns
Manufacture and sale of packaged food products from its
100% of the shareholding of Blazeclan Technologies
food processing facility based in Assam.
Limited, New Zealand.
ITC Infotech India Limited (I3L) All the above entities, other than Indivate Inc., are engaged
in the information technology services business. Indivate
Shareholding
Inc. is principally engaged in providing business consulting
100% held by ITC Limited.
services and opportunity based trading of FMCG products.
Nature of Business
Russell Credit Limited
Information technology services and solutions.
Shareholding
Subsidiaries
100% held by ITC Limited.
I3L owns 100% of the shareholding of :
Nature of Business
ITC Infotech (USA), Inc. (I2A)
Investment company. Its activities are primarily confined
ITC Infotech Limited, UK
to making long-term investments in strategic thrust areas
ITC Infotech Do Brasil LTDA., Brazil for ITC, namely FMCG, Paper, Paperboards & Packaging,
ITC Infotech France SAS Agri Business and Information Technology.
ITC Infotech GmbH, Germany Greenacre Holdings Limited
ITC Infotech Malaysia SDN. BHD.
Shareholding
ITC Infotech de México, S.A. de C.V. (I2MX)*
100% held by ITC Limited.
ITC Infotech Arabia Limited, Saudi Arabia
Nature of Business
ITC Infotech Italia s.r.l., Italy and
Engaged in property infrastructure maintenance, and
Blazeclan Technologies Private Limited (BTPL)
providing engineering, procurement & construction
* Ownership includes shareholding by I2A, which holds management and project management consultancy
one share in I2MX. services.
222 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 241]
Gold Flake Corporation Limited (GFCL) Technico Agri Sciences Limited
Shareholding Shareholding
100% held by ITC Limited.
100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business
Nature of Business
General trading.
An agri-biotechnology company primarily engaged in rapid
Joint Venture multiplication and commercialisation of seed potatoes
®
ITC Filtrona Limited, India, is a 50% joint venture of GFCL with TECHNITUBER technology & sourcing / supply of
with Filtrona Products International Limited, UK. commercial potatoes.
Nature of Business
ITC IndiVision Limited
Manufacture and sale of cigarette filter rods.
Shareholding
ITC Integrated Business Services Limited (IIBSL)
100% held by ITC Limited.
Shareholding
Nature of Business
100% held by ITC Limited.
Manufacture and sale of nicotine and nicotine derivative
Nature of Business
products from its facility in Karnataka.
Providing support to the Business Shared Services
operations of ITC Limited and its related entities.
Wimco Limited
Subsidiary
Shareholding
IIBSL owns 100% shareholding in MRR Trading &
100% held by ITC Limited.
Investment Company Limited, which provides estate
maintenance services. Nature of Business
Fabrication & assembly of machinery for tube filling,
Technico Pty Limited, Australia (Technico)
cartoning, wrapping, conveyor solutions and engineering
Shareholding
services.
100% held by ITC Limited.
Nature of Business Pavan Poplar Limited & Prag Agro Farm Limited
An agri-biotechnology company primarily engaged in Shareholding
®
commercialisation of seed potatoes with TECHNITUBER
100% held by ITC Limited.
technology.
Nature of Business
Subsidiaries
Agro-forestry and other related activities.
Technico has two wholly owned subsidiaries, namely
Technico Technologies Inc., Canada and Technico Asia
ITC Fibre Innovations Limited
Holdings Pty Limited, Australia.
Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited has a wholly owned Shareholding
subsidiary, Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Company
100% held by ITC Limited
Limited, China.
Nature of Business
These companies support Technico in the production
and commercialisation of seed potatoes in different Manufacture and sale of moulded fibre products from its
geographies. facility in Madhya Pradesh.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 223

[PAGE 242]
Major Associate of the Group The excess / deficit of the cost to ITC Limited of its
investments in its subsidiaries over its share of net
ITC Hotels Limited (ITCHL)
worth (residual interest in the assets of the subsidiaries
Shareholding
after deducting all its liabilities) of the subsidiaries at
39.88 % held by ITC Limited. the date of investment in the subsidiaries are treated
as goodwill / capital reserve in the CFS. The goodwill is
Nature of Business
disclosed as an asset and capital reserve as a reserve in
ITCHL is engaged in Hospitality business.
the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
During the year, the Hotels Business of the Company was
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive
demerged into ITCHL with effect from 1st January, 2025.
income are attributed to the Group as owners and to
ITCHL is amongst the fastest growing hospitality chains in
the non-controlling interest; likewise the non-controlling
the country with 140+ properties and over 13,000 rooms
interests in the net assets of the consolidated subsidiaries
under six distinctive brands – ‘ITC Hotels’ in the Luxury
is identified and presented separately within Equity in the
segment, ‘Mementos’ in the Luxury Lifestyle segment,
Consolidated Balance Sheet.
‘Welcomhotel’ in the Upper Upscale & Upscale segment,
Inter-Company transactions within the Group (both
‘Storii’ in the Boutique Premium segment, ‘Fortune’ in the
Balance Sheet and Profit or loss items) are eliminated for
Mid-market to Upscale segment and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in
arriving at the Group CFS.
the Leisure & Heritage segment.
CFS is prepared applying uniform accounting policies of
Note: The full list of the Group’s Associates appears on
ITC Limited to the Group companies.
page 282.
Associates and Joint Ventures (Ind AS 28)
Principles of Consolidation
An investment in associate and joint venture is initially
The Group’s interests in its subsidiaries, associates and
recognised at cost on the date of the investment,
joint ventures are reflected in the Consolidated Financial
and is inclusive of any goodwill / capital reserve embedded
Statements (CFS) in accordance with the relevant Indian
in the cost.
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified under Section
Only share of net profits / losses and other comprehensive
133 of the Companies Act, 2013.
income of associates / joint ventures is considered in
Subsidiaries (Ind AS 110) Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss. The carrying
Line by line consolidation of the Statement of Profit and amount of the investment in associates / joint ventures
Loss and Balance Sheet is done by aggregating like items is adjusted by the share of net profits / losses and other
of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. comprehensive income in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
224 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025