[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 58-60

[PAGE 58]
Report of the Board of Directors
&
Management Discussion and Analysis
For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2025
SOCIO-ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT While growth in Industry witnessed deceleration
at 5.6% (Vs. 10.8% in FY 2023-24), Services sector grew
Global growth slowed down from 3.5% in 2023 to 3.3%1
at 7.3% and the Agri sector witnessed an uptick
in 2024 and remained appx. 40 bps below long-term trend
at 4.6% (Vs. 2.7% in FY 2023-24).
rate 2. Amongst Advanced Economies which grew at 1.8%
India’s macro-economic variables are expected to
(Vs. 1.7% in 2023), uptick in EU (0.9% in 2024 Vs. 0.4%
remain stable in the year ahead, with GDP growth for
in 2023) was offset by a relatively slower pace of growth in
FY 2025-26 expected to be appx. 6.5%. Consumption
US & Japan. Emerging Markets & Developing Economies
expenditure is expected to pick up progressively led by
grew at a subdued rate of 4.3% (Vs. 4.7% in 2023), largely
continued recovery in rural demand backed by a good
due to structural weakness in China. Rising geopolitical
monsoon, along with improvement in urban demand
tensions, evolving global trade dynamics and extreme
as inflation stabilises and tax cuts announced in the
weather events have rendered the global macroeconomic Union Budget boost disposable incomes. The cumulative
environment highly uncertain and volatile. impact of pick-up in capex in the second half of
FY 2024-25 and front loading of Government capex outlay
Aggregate global economic growth, as per recent IMF
in FY 2025-26, along with interest rate cuts and liquidity
estimates, is expected to decelerate sharply by 50 bps
support from RBI, would also be supportive of growth.
to 2.8% in 2025. Advanced Economies are expected
to grow at a slower pace of 1.4% with US GDP growth The Indian economy is poised to grow rapidly in the
years ahead driven by structural factors such as a
projected to decelerate by 100 bps to 1.8% in 2025.
favourable demographic profile, increasing affluence,
Growth in Emerging Markets and Developing Economies
rapid urbanisation, accelerated digital adoption and
is estimated to decelerate by 60 bps to 3.7% in 2025.
the entrepreneurial spirit of its people. Government of
India continues to remain the fastest growing large India’s thrust on strengthening the country’s physical
economy in the world - a relatively bright spot amidst the and digital public infrastructure, focus on enhancing the
challenging global operating environment. The pace of competitiveness of the manufacturing sector, indirect/direct
growth, however, moderated from 9.2% in FY 2023-24 taxation and financial sector reforms, along with measures
to promote ease of doing business, are expected
to 6.5% in FY 2024-25. While headline inflation (CPI)
to power the economy going forward. While higher
remained within the RBI’s target range at 4.6%, food
capital expenditure outlays and focus on infrastructure
inflation witnessed a sharp uptick (FY 2024-25: 7.3% YoY).
are expected to drive growth and competitiveness
The impact of inflationary pressures on household savings
of domestic manufacturing, focus on agri-related
weighed on consumption expenditure, particularly in urban
schemes is expected to boost farmers’ welfare and
markets; however, demand in rural markets was relatively
rural consumption demand, spurring a virtuous
resilient. The weakness in consumption was reflected, consumption-investment-employment cycle.
inter alia, in the muted volume growth of the FMCG sector.
Policy interventions focused on supporting sustainable
1 IMF WEO April ’25 livelihoods and fostering inclusive growth remain critical in
2 Average Global Real GDP growth from 2010 to 2019 sustaining and accelerating India’s economic growth path.
The Indian economy is poised to grow rapidly in the years ahead
driven by structural factors such as a favourable demographic profile,
increasing affluence, rapid urbanisation, accelerated digital adoption and
the entrepreneurial spirit of its people.
40 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 59]
Report of the Board of Directors
Structural support would need to be provided to sectors In this regard, the Government’s focus on promoting Farmer
with potential for large economic-multiplier impact. Producer Organisations (FPOs) holds immense potential
In this regard, the development of robust domestic agri to catalyse agricultural transformation by leveraging
and wood-based value chains hold special importance economies of scale, enabling sustainable agriculture,
in the Indian context, given their enormous potential to supporting market-led production and creating larger
contribute to national objectives. market access. Government interventions encouraging
private and public investment in post-harvest activities
India is amongst the leading producers in the world of
including aggregation, modern storage, efficient supply
several agri-commodities, including milk, rice, wheat,
chain, primary and secondary processing, marketing
sugarcane, cotton, pulses, spices and fruits & vegetables.
and branding, along with measures to harness the power
India’s agri exports have witnessed strong performance
of agri-tech across the agri value chain are steps in the
in recent years; touching a peak of US$ 53 billion in
right direction and will go a long way in unlocking the full
FY 2022-23, moderating to US$ 50 billion in FY 2024-25
potential of the agri sector.
due to trading restrictions on agri-commodities amidst
concerns over food security and inflation on the back of Your Company has adopted targeted collaborative
geopolitical tensions and climate emergencies. However, models to multiply the scale and impact of its agri and rural
India’s share of global agri-trade remains low at only interventions. This collaborative approach, as opposed
about 3%. Enhancing agricultural productivity and value to a traditional transactional approach, can contribute
addition to international standards, while simultaneously meaningfully towards building next generation agriculture
improving market linkages, remain critical to enhance that is climate resilient and capable of supporting gainful
competitiveness of the agri sector and drive significant livelihoods. Digitalisation of agriculture also offers the
increase in farmers’ income. potential to increase productivity and foster structural
changes across the value chain thereby enabling
The increasing severity and frequency of extreme
efficient use of resources. Your Company had launched
weather events such as droughts and floods pose
ITCMAARS (Metamarket for Advanced Agriculture and
enormous threats to the farm sector, making it imperative
Rural Services), that combines the power of cutting-edge
to strengthen climate resilience and adaptability of the
digital technologies with NextGen agri practices. This
agri-food sector. An exponential increase in crop
initiative continues to be scaled up rapidly and currently
production and productivity, backed by climate smart
covers over 2.1 million farmers and over 2,050 FPOs,
agriculture, will be critical in meeting the growing needs
across 11 states and over 18,000 villages. This ‘phygital’
of an increasing population as also in mitigating the
ecosystem continues to empower the farming community
potential risks. Evolving consumer preferences are also
and FPOs by delivering personalised and dynamic
driving a shift towards nutritious and sustainably sourced
advisory services as well as hyperlocal offerings including
food products. These developments accentuate the need
market linkages, agri inputs and credit enablement. Further
to enhance the competitiveness of agri value chains to
details on this transformative initiative are provided in the
cater to the fast-evolving market requirements. India,
Agri Business section of this report.
with its tremendous strengths in this sector, has a unique
opportunity to play a leading role in this global transition It is pertinent to note that a substantial quantum of food is
and in forging an eco-system of sustainable, regenerative wasted along the chain in India, depending on the season
and climate smart agriculture. and the inherent perishability of the crop. Higher levels of
Your Company’s ITCMAARS (Metamarket for Advanced Agriculture and Rural Services)
combines the power of cutting-edge digital technologies with NextGen agri practices.
Currently covers over 2.1 million farmers and over 2,050 FPOs,
across 11 states and over 18,000 villages.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 41

[PAGE 60]
Report of the Board of Directors
food processing in the economy can create a much larger activities in 27 Aspirational Districts across eight states,
pull for quality agri-commodities, thereby reducing farm started in July 2022. The multi-year project covering a wide
wastages and raising farm incomes. This would require range of activities, was successfully completed in the first
focused investments in developing product-specific quarter of the year, with the Government taking forward
climate-controlled infrastructure as well as in branded the farmer capability modules and the design elements of
products that benefit large agri-value chains. Corporate model villages promoted by your Company. The farmer
participation is essential not only to invest in requisite training modules prepared by your Company are now
infrastructure, but also to provide assured market linkages being used by district Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in all
to farmers. A strong focus on India’s food processing 27 districts. During the year, the KVKs themselves trained
sector can play a pivotal role in catalysing a large multiplier over 3,500 Government agricultural department officials
effect, leading to significant job creation, enhanced rural who in turn cascaded the training in over 9,500 villages.
incomes and sustainable management of food inflation. Agricultural departments are promoting 1,350 hub villages
in these districts for demonstration of best practices.
Similarly, the Agro-forestry sector, as a source of raw
material for wood-based industry, is woefully constrained Your Company is working towards developing community
by policies that not only impede job creation in India institutions, promoting women agriculturists, facilitating
but also promote avoidable imports. There is a need for cadre of women service providers like Pashu Sakhis,
appropriate policy interventions and regulatory changes Yojana Sakhis, and Krishi Sakhis and fostering nano and
at national level to utilise full potential of agro forestry in micro entrepreneurship through Agri-Business Centres
the country. and Self-Help Groups. Custom hiring centres for farm
mechanisation, post-harvest product management
Your Company’s interventions across operating segments
infrastructure and community managed seed banks
are aligned to the national priorities of enhancing
for self-reliance in quality seed material are also being
competitiveness of Indian agriculture and industry,
facilitated. Environmentally sustainable farm practices,
generating large-scale employment opportunities and
including zero-till sowing of wheat, direct seeding of rice,
supporting sustainable livelihoods, driving import
micro-irrigation and watershed development, continue to
substitution, creating national brands to maximise value
be promoted.
capture in India, increasing Indian agri exports and
promoting sustainable business practices. For instance, Your Company had earlier collaborated with CGIAR’s
‘ITC Mission Millets’, which leverages enterprise ‘Climate Change and Food Security Programme’ to
strengths in agriculture, food and hospitality to implement create a template for Climate Smart Villages (CSVs),
multi-dimensional interventions in this area, has resulted under the Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) programme.
in significant increase in awareness and demand for The template has since been further strengthened by
millets. Investments made by your Company continue to your Company basis the field experiences and now
be guided by the national objectives of ‘Make in India’ and covers over 7,000 villages across 12 states covering over
‘Doubling Farmers’ Income’ and the overarching theme 21.80 lakh acres, supporting farmers in the management
of ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ that seeks to make the country of risks arising from erratic weather events.
stronger, resilient and more competitive.
Including the acreage in CSVs, the Climate Smart
As reported in earlier years, your Company’s collaboration Agriculture (CSA) programme now covers over
with NITI Aayog, aimed at boosting agricultural and allied 31.70 lakh acres in 19 states. Further, as per the
The Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) programme
now covers over 31.70 lakh acres
in 19 states.
42 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025