[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 338-340

[PAGE 338]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Due to the magnitude and complexity of the transaction,
and considering the assumptions and estimates
required to be made by the management for the
purpose of accounting and presentation / disclosures
in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, this is
considered as a key audit matter.
Refer Note 30(viii) to the consolidated Ind AS financial
statements.
We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015,
Auditor’s Report Thereon as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the
companies included in the Group and of its associates
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible
for the other information. The other information comprises and joint ventures are responsible for maintenance of
the information included in the Annual report, but does not adequate accounting records in accordance with the
include the consolidated Ind AS financial statements and provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of their
our auditor’s report thereon. respective companies and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; selection and application
Our opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial
of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments
statements does not cover the other information and we
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
the design, implementation and maintenance of
In connection with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness
information and, in doing so, consider whether such other
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation
information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated
and presentation of the consolidated Ind AS financial
Ind AS financial statements or our knowledge obtained in
statements that give a true and fair view and are free
the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
which have been used for the purpose of preparation
there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements by the
report in this regard. Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated Ind AS financial statements,
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated
the respective Board of Directors of the companies included
Ind AS Financial Statements
in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible
are responsible for assessing the ability of their respective
for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated
companies to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
Ind AS financial statements in terms of the requirements
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated
going concern basis of accounting unless management
financial position, consolidated financial performance
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations,
including other comprehensive income, consolidated
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
cash flows and changes in equity of the Group including
its associates and joint ventures in accordance with Those respective Board of Directors of the companies
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, included in the Group and of its associates and joint
including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) ventures are also responsible for overseeing the financial
specified under section 133 of the Act read with the reporting process of their respective companies.
320 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 339]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s
report to the related disclosures in the consolidated
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
Ind AS financial statements or, if such disclosures are
whether the consolidated Ind AS financial statements as
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether
are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high
conditions may cause the Group and its associates and
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a joint ventures to cease to continue as a going concern.
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements,
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated
expected to influence the economic decisions of users Ind AS financial statements represent the underlying
taken on the basis of these consolidated Ind AS financial transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
statements. presentation.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding
professional judgment and maintain professional the financial information of the entities or business
skepticism throughout the audit. We also: activities within the Group and its associates and joint
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement ventures of which we are the independent auditors
of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, and whose financial information we have audited, to
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit express an opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial
procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit statements. We are responsible for the direction,
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a supervision and performance of the audit of the financial
basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material statements of such entities included in the consolidated
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one Ind AS financial statements of which we are the
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, independent auditors. For the other entities included
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, which
the override of internal control. have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors
remain responsible for the direction, supervision and
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to
performance of the audits carried out by them. We
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i)
of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing our We communicate with those charged with governance of
opinion on whether the Holding Company has adequate the Holding Company and such other entities included
internal financial controls with reference to financial in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements of which
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of we are the independent auditors regarding, among
such controls. other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies audit and significant audit findings, including any significant
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates deficiencies in internal control that we identify during
and related disclosures made by management. our audit.
Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use We also provide those charged with governance with a
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based statement that we have complied with relevant ethical
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material requirements regarding independence, and to communicate
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that with them all relationships and other matters that may
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and
and its associates and joint ventures to continue as a where applicable, related safeguards.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 321

[PAGE 340]
Independent Auditor’s Report
From the matters communicated with those charged standards applicable in their respective countries.
with governance, we determine those matters that were The Holding Company’s management has converted
of most significance in the audit of the consolidated Ind the financial statements of such subsidiaries located
AS financial statements for the financial year ended outside India from accounting principles generally
March 31, 2025 and are therefore the key audit matters. accepted in their respective countries to accounting
We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless principles generally accepted in India. We have
law or regulation precludes public disclosure about audited these conversion adjustments made by
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, the Holding Company’s management. Our opinion
we determine that a matter should not be communicated in so far as it relates to the balances and affairs of
in our report because the adverse consequences of doing such subsidiaries located outside India is based
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public on the report of other auditors and the conversion
interest benefits of such communication.
adjustments prepared by the management of the
Holding Company and audited by us.
Other Matters
(b) T he accompanying consolidated financial statements
(a) W e did not audit the financial statements and
include unaudited financial statements and other
other financial information, in respect of thirty-two
unaudited financial information in respect of five
subsidiaries, whose financial statements include total
subsidiaries, whose financial statements and
assets of ` 4,344.64 crores as at March 31, 2025,
other financial information reflect total revenues of
and total revenues of ` 4,087.76 crores and net cash
inflows of ` 62.04 crores for the year ended on that ` 215.22 crores and net cash inflows of ` 49.10 crores
date. These financial statements and other financial for the period from April 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024.
information have been audited by other auditors, Those unaudited financial statements and other
which financial statements, other financial information unaudited financial information have been furnished
and auditor’s reports have been furnished to us by to us by the management. The consolidated financial
the management. The consolidated Ind AS financial statements also include the Group’s share of
statements also include the Group’s share of net profit net profit of ` 11.35 crores for the period from
of ` 7.58 crores for the year ended March 31, 2025, April 1, 2024 to December 31, 2024, as considered
as considered in the consolidated Ind AS financial in the consolidated financial statements, in respect of
statements, in respect of nine associates and joint two associates and a joint venture, whose financial
ventures, whose financial statements, other financial statements, other financial information have not been
information have been audited by other auditors audited and whose unaudited financial statements,
and whose reports have been furnished to us by the other unaudited financial information have been
Management. Our opinion on the consolidated Ind AS furnished to us by the Management. Our opinion, in so
financial statements, in so far as it relates to the far as it relates to amounts and disclosures included
amounts and disclosures included in respect of these in respect of these subsidiaries, a joint venture
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and our and associates for the period April 1, 2024 to
report in terms of sub-sections (3) of Section 143 December 31, 2024 [Refer Note 30(viii) to these
of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements], and our
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, is based report in terms of sub-sections (3) of Section 143 of the
solely on the reports of such other auditors.
Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries,
C ertain of these subsidiaries are located outside a joint venture and associates, is based solely on such
India whose financial statements and other financial unaudited financial statements and other unaudited
information have been prepared in accordance with financial information. In our opinion and according to
accounting principles generally accepted in their the information and explanations given to us by the
respective countries and which have been audited Management, these financial statements and other
by other auditors under generally accepted auditing financial information are not material to the Group.
322 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025