[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 3-5

[PAGE 3]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
The world we live in is marked by challenges Transfer Agreement was signed to acquire Century Pulp &
emanating from geo-political conflicts, uncertainties in Paper. These new vectors offer strong strategic fit and
global trade and the accelerating climate crisis. complement ITC's portfolio while offering significant
Compounding this is the unprecedented rate of digital headroom for growth.
advancement. These factors are redefining the
Resilient Supply Chains ITC has built agile and resilient
competitive landscape, compelling enterprises to
supply chains anchored in local agri sourcing and
reframe strategies to stay future-ready.
strategically located manufacturing hubs. The Company's
Recognising the challenges, the ITC Next strategy was Integrated Consumer Goods Manufacturing and Logistics
articulated to scale the next horizon of competitiveness (ICMLs) facilities are icons of manufacturing excellence
and growth. Strong structural drivers have been put in and leverage smart manufacturing, automation and
place to unleash new vectors of growth. Industry 4.0 technologies to provide structural
competitiveness.
Future-ready Portfolio ITC's FMCG businesses
continue to build their future-ready portfolio of Harnessing Digital, Sustainability & Enterprise Strengths
differentiated products to address evolving needs of ITC is also investing in new vectors of growth at the
consumers. It has envisioned a three-horizon growth convergence of digital, sustainability and enterprise
strategy that focuses on enhancing its leadership in strengths. ITCMAARS, with Farmer Producer
core businesses, addressing adjacencies and nurturing Organisations at the centre, is empowering farmers
categories of the future. Through purposeful through personalised advisory, inputs and market
innovation, premiumisation and personalisation, the linkages. The Company's FoodTech services delivered
Company has strengthened its presence across through cloud kitchens synergise ITC's strengths in Foods
Branded Packaged Foods, Cigarettes, Personal Care and Hotels as well as its Digital capabilities.
Products, Education & Stationery Products, and
ITC has embraced a 'Digital First' culture, mainstreaming
Matches and Agarbattis.
digital adoption across operations. Under 'Mission
ITC's Agri Business is defining NextGen Agriculture DigiArc', a next-generation digital architecture is being
through ITCMAARS, the phygital ecosystem, Value- implemented across insighting, sourcing, manufacturing,
Added Agri Products and building climate-resilient trade marketing, logistics and consumer engagement.
value chains.
Sustainability 2.0 Reimagining sustainability under the
The Paperboards, Paper and Packaging Businesses are pressing challenges of climate change and social inequity,
expanding their sustainable solutions through ITC has implemented a Sustainability 2.0 agenda to scale
innovations that provide eco-friendly alternatives to the next horizon of climate action, livelihood generation
single-use plastics. ITC has reinforced its leadership in and community empowerment. ITC has also committed to
the Value-added Paperboard (VAP) segment by achieving 'Net Zero Operations' by 2050, which will entail
developing customised solutions for end-use decarbonisation of its Scopes 1 & 2 emissions.
industries.
Inspired Talent Recognising that talent is one of the most
Value-Accretive Acquisitions ITC is proactively important valuable assets in an organisation, ITC focuses on
exploring value-accretive inorganic opportunities as an nurturing world-class talent and developing professional
additional driver of growth. Several acquisitions were entrepreneurs with a growth mindset.
announced recently, including Ample Foods (Prasuma
The following pages provide a glimpse into how ITC is
and Meatigo), M/s. Sresta Natural Bioproducts (24
enhancing its competitiveness, building resilience and
Mantra Organic Foods) and Mother Sparsh. A Business
unleashing new growth drivers.
i

[PAGE 4]
ITC’s Triple Bottom Line Contribution –
Highlights
Future-ready Businesses of the
11
ITC Group across Agriculture,
Manufacturing and Services
24,025 25+World-class
EBITDA: ` cr Mother Brands
Among Top 3
250+
Corporates in Private Sector in Terms of Factories
Contribution to Exchequer
~52 % of Energy consumed
by ITC is from Afforestation:
Renewable Sources 13
Over Lakh Acres Greened
Plastic Neutral
Since FY22
9 Alliance for Water
Stewardship Platinum
Certified Sites
Watershed Development:
18
Over Lakh Acres Covered
Sustainable Livelihoods
Supported:
90
Nearly Lakh
Support to Education:
22
Nearly Lakh
Children Benefitted
ITCMAARS:
20
Over Lakh Farmer Registrations
CIMONOCE
LATNEMNORIVNE
LAICOS
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
Gross Revenue:
73 465
` , cr
Pioneer in Green Buildings:
17
buildings with Platinum
certification (USGBC/IGBC)
Climate Smart Agriculture:
31
Over Lakh Acres Covered
Maternal & Child Health
and Nutrition:
15.2
Over Lakh Covered
Women Reached through
Multi-dimensional Programmes:
60
Over Lakh
Skilling:
1.2
Over Lakh Youth Trained
ii

[PAGE 5]
ITC: Unleashing New Drivers of Growth & Competitiveness
ITC Group – Spanning Agriculture,
Manufacturing & Services
FMCG
F Present in Branded Packaged
Foods, Cigarettes, Personal
Care Products, Education &
Stationery Products,
Agarbattis & Matches
F India's leading FMCG marketer
F Annual consumer spend of
over Rs 34,000 crores
F Exports to over 70 countries
Agri Business
F One of India's leading Agri Business players
F Sourcing 35 lakh tonnes; supporting over
20 value chain clusters across 22 states
F Pioneer in farmer empowerment
F Exports to over 95 countries
F ITCMAARS covers over 2,050 FPOs; 20 lakh+
farmer registrations
Paperboards & ITC Hotels Limited
ITC Infotech
Packaging Businesses (Listed Entity)*
F Leader in the Value-added
Paperboards segment F Wholly owned subsidiary of
ITC Limited
F Implementing sustainable solutions
to substitute single-use plastic F Leading global technology
services & solutions provider
F Contributing to ‘Make in India’
and import substitution F Operating in 41 countries
F Pioneer in Industry 4.0 F Blazeclan Technologies
technology adoption acquisition to accelerate
growth
F Anchoring local forestry value
chains, enhancing green cover
and supporting livelihoods F Over 140 hotels in 90+ locations
F Pioneered the credo of
‘Responsible Luxury’
F World's first 12 hotels to be
LEED® Zero Carbon and first 9
hotels to be LEED® Zero Water
certified are ITC hotels
F Embraced 'Asset-right' approach
*Demerged and listed separately
iii