[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 110-112

[PAGE 110]
Report of the Board of Directors
with key stakeholders and is committed to continue ensure that no complainant is victimised or harassed for
building harmonious employee relations. Your Company bringing such incidents to the attention of the Company,
remains dedicated to an Employee Relations climate and to keep the information disclosed during the
of partnership and mutuality while ensuring operations course of the investigation as confidential. The
are competitive, flexible and responsive. The Employee practice of the Whistleblower Policy is overseen by the
Relations philosophy of your Company, anchored in the Audit Committee and no employee was denied access to
tenets of Scientific Management, Industrial Democracy, the Committee during the year. The Whistleblower Policy
Human Relations and Employee well-being, has is available on the Company’s corporate website at
contributed towards building a robust platform which has https://www.itcportal.com/whistleblower-policy .
aided the conclusion of collective bargaining agreements
During the year, your Company received 24 complaints in
at several of its manufacturing units, ensuring smooth
terms of the Whistleblower Policy, of which investigation
commencement of operations at greenfield locations and
in respect of 15 complaints was completed; in most of the
the execution of productivity improvement practices.
cases, no evidence was found in support of the allegations
In its relentless pursuit of excellence and value creation, made. Appropriate action, where necessary, was taken.
your Company offers an abundance of opportunities for
employees to grow and thrive in an environment of trust, SUSTAINABILITY 2.0
empowerment and continuous learning. The access to
Your Company believes that when enterprises make
best-in-class resources, technology and infrastructure, the
societal value creation an integral part of their corporate
prospect of building businesses rooted in value chains in
strategy, powerful drivers of innovation emerge that make
India, the deployment of deep consumer insights to create
growth more enduring for all stakeholders. This paradigm
and shape Indian brands are the defining hallmarks of
is called ‘Responsible Competitiveness’ - an abiding
‘The ITC Way’. This unique blend of a high-performance
strategy that focuses on extreme competitiveness but in
culture coupled with care and respect for people remain
a manner that replenishes the environment and supports
vital to realising your Company’s vision of sustaining its
sustainable livelihoods.
position as one of India’s most valuable and admired
Your Company’s innovative business models synergise
corporations.
the building of economic, environmental and social capital,
WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY thus embedding sustainability at the core of its corporate
strategy. Today, this strategy has not only contributed
Your Company’s Whistleblower Policy, approved by
to building strong businesses of the future as well as a
the Board, encourages Directors and employees to
portfolio of winning world-class brands, but also in making
promptly bring to the Company’s attention, instances of
your Company a global exemplar in ‘Triple Bottom Line’
illegal or unethical conduct, actual or suspected incidents
performance. Your Company is the only enterprise in the
of fraud, actions that affect the financial integrity of
world of comparable dimensions to have achieved and
the Company, or actual or suspected instances of leak
sustained the three key global indices of environmental
of unpublished price sensitive information, that could
sustainability of being ‘water positive’ (for 23 years),
adversely impact the Company’s operations, business
‘carbon positive’ (for 20 years), and ‘solid waste recycling
performance and/or reputation. The Policy requires
positive’ (for 18 years).
the Company to investigate such incidents, when reported,
in an impartial manner and take appropriate action Your Company is actively working towards Sustainability 2.0,
to ensure that the requisite standards of professional an agenda which reimagines sustainability under the
and ethical conduct are always upheld. Anonymous pressing challenges of climate change and social inequity.
complaints are also entertained if the same is backed by Sustainability 2.0 calls for inclusive strategies that can
specific allegations & verifiable facts, and is accompanied support sustainable livelihoods, pursue newer ways
with supporting evidence. It is your Company’s Policy to to fight climate change, enable the transition to a net
92 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 111]
Report of the Board of Directors
zero economy, work towards ensuring water security Plastic Waste and Circular Economy
for all and create an effective circular economy for
– 100% of your Company’s Packaging to be Reusable,
post-consumer packaging waste. It also entails protecting
Recyclable or Compostable/Biodegradable by 2028.
and restoring biodiversity and ecosystem services through
adoption of nature-based solutions. Your Company – Sustain plastic neutrality (attained in FY 2021-22) by
enabling sustainable management of waste in excess
believes that agility in thought and action, meaningful
of the amount of packaging utilised.
public-private-people partnerships and Responsible
Competitiveness will act as core enablers of this new Sustainable Agriculture
agenda. Your Company has the potential to make a
– Promote climate smart agriculture approach in core
large-scale impact not only from an economic standpoint,
Agri Business catchments across four million acres
but also from the perspective of supporting livelihoods
by 2030.
and social enablement because of its presence across
Biodiversity Conservation
several critical sectors of the economy. With its bold
Sustainability 2.0 agenda, your Company is setting the – Revive & sustain ecosystem services and products
bar higher and remains committed to making meaningful provided by nature, through adoption of nature-based
contribution to the Nation’s future while retaining its status solutions and biodiversity conservation covering over
as a sustainability exemplar. The 2030 Sustainability 2.0 one million acres by 2030.
ambitions include:
Sustainable Livelihoods
Climate Change
– Supporting sustainable livelihoods for 10 million
– Enhancing the share of renewable energy usage to people by 2030.
50% of total energy consumption by 2030.
Your Company’s Businesses are actively working towards
– Meeting 100% of purchased grid electricity achieving your Company’s Sustainability 2.0 vision.
requirements from renewable sources by 2030. During FY 2024-25, your Company enhanced the share
of its renewable energy to nearly 52%. Commendable
– Reducing specific energy consumption by 30% and
progress has been made in line with 2030 targets relating
specific Greenhouse Gases (GHG) emissions by 50%
to specific energy, specific GHG emissions and specific
by 2030 as compared to the FY 2018-19 baseline.
water consumption across Businesses as well. In line
– Sustain and enhance carbon sequestration by with its commitment, your Company continued to remain
expanding forestry projects through your Company’s plastic neutral during FY 2024-25 by sustainably managing
Social and Farm Forestry programme and other such more plastic packaging waste than the amount of plastic
initiatives covering over 1.5 million acres by 2030. packaging utilised. During the year, your Company’s
large-scale programmes on Sustainable Agriculture were
Water Stewardship
augmented to cover 3.17 million acres. Through its deep
– Achieving 40% reduction in specific water consumption engagement in agriculture, manufacturing and services,
by 2030 as compared to the FY 2018-19 baseline. as well as its extensive distribution infrastructure and
large-scale programmes under ITC Mission Sunehra
– Creation of rainwater harvesting potential equivalent
Kal, your Company supports nearly nine million
to over five times the net water consumption by 2030.
sustainable livelihoods across its operations and
– Certification of all sites in high water stressed areas value chains. A detailed performance dashboard against
as per the international water stewardship standard 2030 commitments is included in your Company’s
by Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS) by 2035 annual Sustainability Report, 2025 and will be available
and eight sites by 2024. in due course.
– Improve crop water-use efficiency in agri-value chains In addition to the 2030 targets, your Company is enhancing
through demand side management interventions and its long-term climate-related goals by committing to
enable savings of 2,000 million kl of water by 2030. achieve ‘Net Zero Operations’ by 2050 which will entail
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 93

[PAGE 112]
Report of the Board of Directors
decarbonisation of its scope 1 and scope 2 emissions Business Conduct (NGRBC) issued by the Ministry of
i.e., electrical and thermal energy-related emissions in Corporate Affairs, Government of India.
own operations. Additionally, your Company will continue
During the year, your Company sustained its ‘AA’ rating
to collaborate with its extended ecosystem for facilitating
by MSCI-ESG for the seventh consecutive year, the
decarbonisation of emissions across the value chain
highest rating among global tobacco majors. Based on
(scope 3 emissions) as well as setting up systems for
its ESG score as assessed by S&P Global Corporate
monitoring scope 3 emissions in line with emerging
Sustainability Assessment (CSA), your Company has also
standards.
been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Emerging
To achieve its Sustainability 2.0 vision, your Company Markets Index for the fifth year in a row. In FY 2023-24,
continues to strengthen its management approach which your Company entered the prestigious ‘A List’ for
is guided by a comprehensive set of sustainability policies CDP Water with a ‘Leadership Level’ score of ‘A’, which
and is being implemented across the organisation. is higher than the Asia and Global average of ‘C’. For CDP
Your Company has put in place robust mechanisms for Climate, your Company had achieved ‘Leadership Level’
engaging with key stakeholders, identification of material score of ‘A -’ in FY 2023-24, which is higher than the
sustainability issues and progressively monitoring and Asia and Global average of ‘C’. Your Company’s CDP
mitigating the impacts along the value chain of each scores for FY 2024-25 are still awaited.
Business. Your Company will continue to update these
Contribution to the United Nations Sustainable
systems and processes in line with evolving disclosure
Development Goals (UN SDGs)
standards and Environmental, Social and Governance
Your Company’s Sustainability strategies and Social
(ESG) requirements.
Investment Programmes & interventions, in addition
Your Company’s 21st Sustainability Report published
to their alignment with national priorities, are also well
during the year detailed the progress made across all
positioned to contribute to the achievement of India’s
dimensions of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ for FY 2023-24.
commitment under the UN SDGs. For instance, your
This report was prepared in conformance with
Company’s programme on Climate Smart Agriculture
‘In Accordance – Comprehensive’ criteria of the
is aligned to the Government’s National Mission for
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and is
Sustainable Agriculture, and also contributes to the
third-party assured to ‘Reasonable Level’ as per
achievement of multiple SDGs, including SDG 13
International Standard on Assurance Engagements
(Climate Action), SDG 15 (Life on Land), SDG 1
(ISAE) 3000. The report continues to be aligned to the
(No Poverty), SDG 2 (Zero Hunger) and SDG
requirements of the Integrated Reporting Framework
12 (Responsible Consumption and Production).
as well. In addition to the Sustainability Report, your
Your Company’s multi-dimensional environmental and
Company published its first Nature Report in line with
social interventions which have been scaled up over
the recommendations of Taskforce on Nature-related
the years contribute favourably to all 17 UN SDGs.
Financial Disclosures (TNFD).
A comprehensive statement linking your Company’s
Your Company’s Sustainability Report for FY 2024-25 interventions to the SDGs including corresponding targets
is being prepared and will be made available on your will be available in your Company’s Sustainability Report
Company’s corporate website in due course. In addition, the for FY 2024-25.
Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (BRSR),
Building Climate Resilience
as mandated by the Securities and Exchange Board of
India (SEBI) for the year under review is annexed to the Your Company recognises the urgent need to combat
Report and Accounts. The BRSR maps the sustainability climate change for building a more secure future and
performance of your Company against the nine principles the role it can play in enabling a net-zero economy.
forming part of the National Guidelines on Responsible To address the risks of climate change, your Company’s
94 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025