[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 118-120

[PAGE 118]
Report of the Board of Directors
The meticulous implementation of evolving scientific effective climate finance framework to close the
principles and technological advancements by your climate finance gap and facilitate climate-resilient
Company’s research and development teams enables growth.
development of ‘better for you’ portfolio. Your Company
The Centre in collaboration with CEEW (Council for
also achieved the first rank in ATNI India Index 2023
Energy, Environment and Water) launched the report
amongst 20 of the largest Indian food & beverage
on ‘Building Climate Resilience for Indian Industry’
manufacturers as assessed by the globally recognised
at the 19th Sustainability Summit. The report has
Access to Nutrition Initiative (ATNI). The index is published
developed a Physical Climate Risk Assessment
every 2-3 years and evaluates companies on their
Framework (PCRAF) to assess and quantify climate
governance and management, production and distribution
risks for Indian businesses and their value chains.
of healthy products, influence on consumer choices,
and policies and actions targeting priority populations at In collaboration with Ministry of Environment, Forest
high risk of malnutrition. and Climate Change (MoEFCC), the Centre is
actively contributing to the formulation of the National
Promoting Thought Leadership in Sustainability Inventory of Greenhouse Gases related to the
To ensure wider adoption of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ Industrial Processes and Product Use (IPPU) sector
philosophy across the Industry, your Company established as part of India’s fourth National Communications
the ‘CII – ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable (NATCOM) to the United Nations Framework
Development’ (CESD) in 2006 in collaboration with the Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). With a vision to 1st Biennial Transparency Report under the NATCOM
drive transformation towards sustainable development, project, guided by the Ministry of Environment, Forest
the Centre plays a focal role in Government Industry and Climate Change.
dialogues on national regulations, articulate stakeholder
Advancing Creation of a Circular Economy
discourses on global policies, put forth Indian industry’s
The India Plastics Pact (IPP), launched in September
stand on macro-economic issues and accentuate the
2021, is uniting businesses, NGOs, and citizens
need for sustainable and inclusive transformation. Major
behind four ambitious time-bound targets to
highlights from the year include:
help realise a vision of a world where plastic is valued
Building Climate Resilience and Low Carbon Economy
and doesn’t pollute the environment. The Pact is the
The CII Climate Action Charter (CCAC) provides a first in Asia and joins a global network of 13 Plastics
platform for Indian businesses to map Climate Change Pacts. 53 organisations are signatories to the Pact
as a material risk across value chains and develop and have committed to the Pact’s 2030 Targets for
long-term actions to build resilience. The Charter a circular plastics economy. Some of the key reports
has been designed to provide impetus for collective launched by IPP during the year include:
action by Indian businesses to drive solutions
– Roadmap for managing films and flexible
for a just, equitable and resilient transition, and
packaging in India
currently, has close to 500 signatories across
industry sectors. – Design for recycling guidance for films and
flexible packaging and Landscape assessment:
CII-led delegation participated in the 29th Conference
Reuse models in India.
of the Parties (COP29), held in Baku, Azerbaijan, from
November 11-22, 2024. The report, ‘CII at COP29 The Centre partnered with the Ministry of Environment,
Negotiations: Indian Industry Expectations’, launched Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) for streamlining
at the Conference, emphasises a balanced approach implementation of environmental reforms, thereby
that incorporates both mitigation and adaptation, fostering circular economy, transparency and
acknowledging the need for a more equitable and enhancing natural resource management. During the
100 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 119]
Report of the Board of Directors
year the Centre partnered with Bureau of Indian take forward clean air agenda in India and promote
Standards (BIS) to develop standards related to focused actions through collective leadership of
waste management, sustainability, environmental Industry sub-sectors. The Forum led by 123 business
management and ecological priorities. The Centre leaders, contribute towards making the air quality in
also worked with the Central Pollution Control Board India better through the Crop Residue Management
to resolve challenges related to Extended Producer (CRM) and through city-level awareness activities. In
Responsibility (EPR) obligations under the rules the last six years the programme has led to saving of
for plastics, e-waste, battery and hazardous waste 12 million kg fine Particulate Matter (PM2.5).
management.
To enhance the ecosystem for Electric Vehicle (EV),
During the year, CII signed an MoU with the All-India CII facilitated industry inputs for 3 key Working Groups
Plastics Manufacturing Association to encourage under the newly formed National EV Task Force of
action, knowledge sharing, and awareness between the Ministry of Heavy Industries (MHI).
larger businesses and MSMEs.
Facilitating an Enabling Ecosystem for ESG Reporting
Since 2020, CII has been working across various
As part of SEBI’s Industry Standards Forum (ISF),
sectors and has successfully supported over
CII formed a Core Group and held consultations
260 sites in achieving SuP-free (single-use
to develop Standards for Reporting on Business
plastic-free) certification.
Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR)
During the year, the Centre hosted the first edition of Core. The recommendations made by CII on the
the CII Circular Economy Conference and launched SEBI Consultation Paper – ‘Recommendations of
the CII Sustainable Plastic Packaging Awards for the Expert Committee for Facilitating Ease of Doing
recognising upstream innovations and changes Business with respect to BRSR’ were accepted by the
in design of plastic packaging by businesses, regulatory body.
driving the transition towards a circular plastics
To help Indian organisations navigate ESG
economy in India.
compliances and go beyond compliance, CESD
Nature Positive Actions launched SaaS based ESG Subscription Service at
The India Business and Biodiversity Initiative the 19th Sustainability Summit.
(IBBI) participated in consultation meetings for The Eco Edge initiative of the Centre aims at integrating
updating the National Biodiversity Strategy and sustainability in the value chains of companies.
Action Plan (NBSAP), and for adoption of National
The focus areas include Decarbonisation, Circularity,
Biodiversity Targets (NBTs) in alignment with the
Health & Safety, and Human Rights. The programme
Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF). At COP16
evaluates the performance of sourcing companies and
to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in
their value chain partners. During the year, more than
Cali, Colombia, India launched its updated National
200 suppliers’ sustainability performance was assessed
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP).
through the Eco Edge programme for the automotive
IBBI was designated by the MoEFCC as the and energy sectors. For further adoption the Eco Edge
responsible agency for Target 15 of India’s updated Online Assessment Tool was also launched.
NBSAP. Target 15 focuses on sustainable production,
Knowledge Exchange and Excellence in Sustainability
supply chains, and disclosure of risks, aiming to ensure
The 19th Sustainability Summit, Centre’s flagship
businesses manage biodiversity risks effectively.
annual event, was organised with the theme of
Enhancing solutions for Clean Air
Driving Change for a Sustainability Conscious World.
‘India CEO Forum for Clean Air’ is a dedicated The Summit deliberated on tangible actions in
platform aiming to galvanise Indian businesses to driving sustainable change and highlighted inspiring
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 101

[PAGE 120]
Report of the Board of Directors
actions that exemplify the power of innovation, – strengthening capabilities of Implementation
development, and cooperation in shaping a prosperous Partners / Community Based Organisations (CBOs)
future for all. in all project catchments for participatory planning,
ownership and sustenance of interventions.
Through the CII–ITC Sustainability Awards,
35 organisations were recognised for excellence – facilitating the development agenda in a manner that
in sustainable business practices. The Awards is inclusive and empowers women, the poor and
are a part of the continued efforts of the Centre to marginalised communities including persons with
create awareness on sustainability practices and to disability in the vicinity of your Company’s factories
create capacities in business. and agri-catchments, thereby significantly improving
Human Development Indices (HDI).
To help industry manage climate risk, leverage
market opportunities and become climate resilient, – ensuring behavioural change through focus on
CII instituted a CAP 2.0° (Climate Action Programme) demand generation for all interventions, thereby
to build capacity of industry and recognise best enabling participation, contribution and asset creation
practices and innovation on climate action. for the community.
The CAP 2.0° awards are the first one in India
– pursuing the Prototype-Pilot-Scale-Amplification
to recognise industry’s efforts on climate change
approach to incorporate innovative and differentiated
mitigation and adaptation. The awards in its 3rd edition
design elements in a structured manner, whilst also
recognised 21 organisations for their pioneering work
striving for amplification of successful interventions by
in managing climate change.
partnering with Government and Collaboratives.
The Centre trained nearly 400 professionals from
Your Company’s stakeholders are confronted with
300+ organisations on sustainable business practices
multi-dimensional and inter-related concerns, at the
through 25 sessions conducted during the year.
core of which is the challenge of securing sustainable
livelihoods. Your Company undertakes periodic
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
stakeholder engagements in the form of community
Your Company’s overarching commitment towards
need assessments, impact assessments and other
creating significant and sustainable societal value is
evaluations. During the year, your Company undertook
manifest in its CSR initiatives that embrace the most
48 such community engagements across 14 states
disadvantaged sections of society, especially in rural
where your Company’s Social Investments Programme
India, through economic and social empowerment based
is being implemented, for the purpose of understanding
on grassroots capacity building. Your Company has a
grievances if any, of the community members. Further,
comprehensive CSR Policy outlining programmes, projects
over 3,000 household surveys were also conducted
and activities that your Company undertakes to create a
during the year. Accordingly, interventions under
significant positive impact on identified stakeholders. All
your Company’s Social Investments Programme have
these programmes fall within the purview of Section 135
been appropriately designed to build capacities and
read with Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 and
promote sustainable livelihoods.
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
Your Company’s Social Investments Programme follows
Rules, 2014.
the Two Horizon approach that focuses on inclusive
The key tenets of your Company’s CSR interventions are:
growth and holistic development of households; with
– deep engagement in identified core operational women and poor & vulnerable communities at the core.
geographies to promote holistic development and In addition to being beneficiaries of several programmes,
interventions designed in order to respond to the women are also influencers and active participants in
most significant development challenges of your grassroot institutions. Several such women also act as
Company’s stakeholder groups. change makers in the society.
102 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025