[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 68-70

[PAGE 68]
Report of the Board of Directors
tobacco control objectives, cognising for the unique tobacco As a testimony to the success of digital initiatives on
consumption pattern in India. Stability in taxes is critical to HR practices, the Business was honoured with the
address the interests of all stakeholders of this industry, prestigious CII National HR Award for Excellence in
including tobacco farmers, consumers and the Exchequer. Digital Practices.
Manufacturing facilities of the Business continue to set Your Company remains well positioned to fortify its
new benchmarks in the areas of quality, sustainability, market standing in the legal cigarette industry, leveraging
supply chain responsiveness and productivity, driven its superior strategies, integrated seed to smoke value
through investments in new technology induction, digital chain, future-ready portfolio, robust innovation pipeline,
technologies, innovation, and ensuring product & process cutting-edge manufacturing & digital technologies
excellence. Cutting-edge technologies in the areas of and best-in-class execution capabilities. A stable and
Industry 4.0 and Data Sciences are being leveraged to equitable taxation & regulatory regime remains critical to
build a smart manufacturing environment of connected enable the legal cigarette industry to claw back volumes
systems. These initiatives, coupled with innovative
from illicit trade, as also borne out by recent experience.
capabilities, in-house design and development expertise,
have further improved the speed-to-market for launch of FMCG – OTHERS
new and differentiated offers of the Business.
The FMCG - Others Segment delivered a resilient
It is extremely satisfying to report that your Company performance amidst subdued demand conditions
continues to be recognised for its operational excellence. and significant increase in competitive intensity from
The Bengaluru, Pune and Munger units won the local/regional players. Costs of several major inputs
‘Apex Prize for Operational Excellence’ at the Integrated such as edible oil, wheat, maida, potato and cocoa
Manufacturing Excellence Initiative (IMExI) Awards witnessed sharp escalation, especially in the second half
organised by Kaizen Hansei Institute, a wing of of the financial year, weighing on margins. The inflationary
Kaizen Institute of India. pressures were partially mitigated through focused cost
In line with your Company’s commitment to the management, portfolio premiumisation, supply chain
‘Triple Bottom Line’ philosophy, the Business continued to agility, digital interventions and calibrated pricing actions.
focus its efforts for resource conservation and adoption of Trade and marketing investments were sustained at
best-in-class technologies and processes. Sustainability competitive levels during the year towards supporting
initiatives of the Business continue to receive industry growth and market standing. Additionally, the Notebooks
recognition, with the Kidderpore unit receiving the portfolio was impacted by sharp deflation in paper
‘National Energy Leader Award’ at the CII National Award prices on account of cheap imports of paper, leading to
for Excellence in Energy Management, and the Munger heightened competitive intensity with opportunistic play by
Unit being awarded the ‘Winner’ Award under the Best local/regional brands.
Energy Efficient Organisation (Large Sector) at the
Your Company’s FMCG Businesses recorded
CII National Energy Efficiency Circle Competition.
Segment Revenue of ` 21981.57 crores (previous year
The 21 MW wind farm in Karnataka received the
` 20966.83 crores), with Segment EBITDA at
‘Best Performing Wind Farm Award’ from Indian Wind
` 2163.92 crores (previous year ` 2338.50 crores).
Power Association in its geographical zone. Additionally,
the Pune unit secured the coveted ‘Sarvashreshtha A consumer-centric approach, driven by purpose-led
Suraksha Puraskar’ awarded by National Safety Council brands, a future-ready portfolio including value-added
of India demonstrating its commitment to safety. adjacencies and agility in execution backed by smart
Over 100 new products anchored on the vectors of Health & Nutrition, Hygiene,
Protection & Care, Convenience & On-the-Go, Indulgence etc., were launched across
target markets during the year, leveraging the R&D platforms of your Company’s Life Sciences
and Technology Centre (LSTC) and agile product development teams across Businesses.
50 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 69]
omni-channel capability and excellence in supply chain, have grown at an impressive pace over the past
remains at the core of your Company’s strategy to rapidly several years.
scale-up the FMCG Businesses.
FMCG - Others
Across your Company’s FMCG Businesses, the power
of digital is being leveraged to drive superior consumer
Revenue (` Crores)
insights & innovation, deepen consumer engagement and
enhance brand loyalty. Strategic interventions continue to
be made towards delivering delightful brand experiences
seamlessly using an ‘Always On’ approach across
touchpoints through personalised journeys mapped to
individual needs, preferences and context.
Your Company continues to leverage deep consumer
insights and cutting-edge R&D capabilities to address
present and emergent consumer need spaces. Over
100 new products anchored on the vectors of Health &
Nutrition, Hygiene, Protection & Care, Convenience &
On-the-Go, Indulgence etc., were launched across target Your Company’s vibrant portfolio of over 25 world-class
markets during the year, leveraging the R&D platforms of Indian brands, largely built through an organic growth
your Company’s Life Sciences and Technology Centre strategy leveraging institutional synergies in a relatively
(LSTC) and agile product development teams across short period of time, represents an annual consumer
Businesses. spend of over ` 34000 crores and reach over 260 million
Cutting-edge digital technologies including Industry 4.0, households in India. These home-grown, purpose-led
Advanced Analytics, Big Data and industrial Internet of Indian brands, powered by agile innovation, support the
Things (IoT) continue to be deployed towards strengthening competitiveness of domestic value chains, especially in
your Company’s real time operations and execution the agri space, thereby ensuring creation and retention of
platform, enhancing productivity, driving efficiency and value within the country.
cost agility. These initiatives are anchored on the key
Your Company’s FMCG brands have achieved impressive
pillars of synchronised planning and forecasting, agile, market standing6 in a relatively short span of time in their
resilient & efficient supply chain, smart buying & value
respective categories viz. Aashirvaad is No. 1 in Branded Atta,
engineering, smart manufacturing and smart demand
Bingo! is No. 1 in the Bridges segment of Snack Foods,
capture & fulfilment. Strategic investments have been
Sunfeast is No. 1 in the Cream Biscuits segment,
stepped up to build platforms of insights by harmonising
Classmate is No. 1 in Notebooks, YiPPee! is No. 2 in
and integrating large and isolated datasets powered
Noodles and Mangaldeep is No. 2 in Incense Sticks.
by AI/ML technologies and ‘human-centred design’ &
Your Company remains focused on rapidly scaling up the
visualisation tools.
FMCG Businesses anchored on strong growth platforms
The FMCG Businesses comprising Branded Packaged
and a future-ready portfolio. It is pertinent to note that the
Foods, Personal Care Products, Education and Stationery
Products, Incense Sticks (Agarbattis) and Safety Matches
30YF 80YF 01YF 31YF 41YF 51YF 61YF 71YF 81YF 91YF 02YF 12YF 22YF 32YF 42YF 52YF
Report of the Board of Directors
21982
20967
19123
15994
14728
12505 12844
11329
10512
9731 9038
8122
7012
3642
2511
109
6 Source: Nielsen, Kantar Household Panel
Your Company’s vibrant portfolio of over 25 world-class Indian brands,
largely built through an organic growth strategy leveraging institutional synergies
in a relatively short period of time, represents an annual consumer spend of
over ` 34000 crores and reach over 260 million households in India.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 51

[PAGE 70]
Report of the Board of Directors
chosen categories, which are largely characterised by and newer routes to market, smart buying & value
low household penetration levels and/or low per capita engineering and smart manufacturing. Investments over
consumption, offer significant headroom for long-term the years in several state-of-the-art Integrated Consumer
growth. This is borne out by several reports which Goods Manufacturing and Logistics facilities (ICMLs) have
highlight that your Company’s total addressable market laid a strong foundation to drive structural advantages
expansion potential is amongst the highest in the Indian such as economies of scale and scope, ensuring product
FMCG space. In this context, it is noteworthy that a key freshness, enhancing agility and responsiveness of
element of your Company’s growth strategy is to foray the supply chain, reducing cost of servicing proximal
into value-added adjacencies and categories of the future markets through lower distance-to-market, etc. Capacity
by leveraging the 25+ powerful mother brands it has utilisation at the 11 operational ICMLs continues to be
established over the years. Recent examples of such brand ramped up along with focused smart manufacturing
extensions include Aashirvaad to Dairy, Ready-to-Eat, interventions leveraging automation and Industry 4.0
Vermicelli, Rava, Besan, Indian breads, Salt and Spices; technologies to drive operational efficiencies, yield and
Sunfeast to Dairy Beverages and Cakes; Bingo! energy management and further enhance safety and
to Namkeens; ITC Master Chef to Frozen Snacks and quality. With growing scale, supply chain operations are
Cooking pastes; Classmate to Writing instruments; being increasingly delayered through direct-to-market
Savlon to Sanitisers, Wipes and Disinfectant sprays shipments, thereby reducing freight costs and eliminating
etc. Simultaneously, the FMCG Businesses continue to multiple handling. Your Company is confident that these
make strategic investments in building categories of the strategic interventions which are already delivering
future and establishing your Company’s ‘right to win’ substantial benefits will realise their full potential over the
by progressively scaling up nascent categories where medium term and continue to create long-term value.
beachheads have been created. In line with the
Your Company continues to counter the impact of
ITC Next Strategy of building a future-ready portfolio,
inflationary headwinds through proactive measures across
accelerating growth and enhancing competitiveness,
all nodes of operations and deliver competitively superior
several value accretive acquisitions were announced
performance leveraging its institutional strengths and
during the year viz. M/s. Sresta Natural Bioproducts
harnessing advantages of scale, smart buying initiatives
(24 Mantra Organic Foods), Mother Sparsh Baby Care
and world-class talent in a consumer-centric, agile and
(Mother Sparsh) and Ample Foods (Prasuma & Meatigo).
innovative manner.
These interventions are expected to augment your
Company’s presence and market standing in high-growth Notwithstanding the short-term challenges, the
and future-facing businesses. structural drivers of long-term growth such as rising
disposable incomes and consumer awareness, low
The FMCG Businesses continue to expand their export
levels of penetration of consumer goods, favourable
footprint leveraging the equity of their world-class brands –
demographics, increasing urbanisation and growing
with a reach now spanning over 70 countries. Your Company
preference for trusted brands remain firmly in place. Your
is also exploring strategic opportunities in proximal
Company remains confident of rapidly scaling up its FMCG
markets as a potential vector of growth going forward.
Businesses on the back of a strong future-ready portfolio
The FMCG Businesses continue to create structural powered by purpose-led brands, world-class quality, deep
competitive advantages and enhance profitability by consumer insights, cutting-edge innovation and an agile,
leveraging world-class distributed manufacturing and resilient and efficient supply chain. Your Company’s
logistics infrastructure, multi-channel distribution network institutional strengths – strong backward linkages with the
In line with the ITC Next Strategy of building a future-ready portfolio, accelerating growth and
enhancing competitiveness, several value accretive acquisitions were announced during the year
viz. M/s. Sresta Natural Bioproducts (24 Mantra Organic Foods), Mother Sparsh Baby Care
(Mother Sparsh) and Ample Foods (Prasuma & Meatigo). These interventions are expected to augment
your Company’s presence and market standing in high-growth and future-facing businesses.
52 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025