[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 121-123

[PAGE 121]
Report of the Board of Directors
The Two Horizon approach provides an integrated and To address the magnitude of water stress, your Company
affirmative response to development by transforming has also extended water stewardship work to river basin
lives and landscapes. Whilst Horizon-I focuses on level interventions so that the competing demands from
strengthening and sustaining livelihoods of communities neighbouring areas of our catchments are addressed
(primarily agriculture and allied sector livelihoods); and a more holistic and sustainable impact created.
Horizon-II focuses on building capabilities and capacities
Work done in four river basins till date in Maharashtra
to empower communities for a better life for the future.
(Ghod basin), Madhya Pradesh (Kolans basin), Tamil Nadu
The footprint of your Company’s CSR projects is (Upper Bhawani basin) and Telangana (Murreru basin)
spread across 24 states/Union Territories covering over have resulted in the basins achieving water positive status,
300 districts. as against the water deficit estimated in baseline
studies. Work has started in the fifth basin in Karnataka
Your Company’s CSR interventions were conferred
(South Pennar basin), based on the recommendations
with three prestigious awards and recognitions during
from the river basin study done through Indian Institute of
FY 2024-25:
Science (IISc).
– First Prize in FICCI Sustainable Agriculture Awards
2024 in the ‘Natural Resource Management and The coverage of water stewardship programme currently
Climate Resilient Agriculture’ category for the Climate extends to 59 districts of 17 states. During the year,
Smart Village Programme the area under watershed increased by over 1.78 lakh
acres, taking the cumulative coverage area to 18.16 lakh
– IIT Madras CSR Awards 2024 under the theme
acres. Over 3,500 water-harvesting structures including
‘Technology-Driven Inclusive Social Impact’ for
ground water recharge structures were built during the
deployment of technology in Climate Smart Agriculture
year, creating 5.83 million kl of rainwater harvesting
– ‘Gold’ Prize in Financial Express Green Sarathi Award
potential. The total number of water-harvesting structures
2024, in the Water Stewardship category
reached to over 35,900 and the net water storage potential
to over 59.90 million kl. In addition, as part of demand
Natural Resources Management - Water Stewardship
management intervention, your Company continues
Programme
to work with farmers to achieve ‘more crop per drop’
The Water Stewardship programme aims to facilitate water
by promoting agronomic practices and micro irrigation
security for all dependents in the factory catchments and
techniques targeted towards saving water in cultivation
to drought-proof the agri-catchments to minimise risks to
and improving farmer incomes. Over 18 lakh acres across
agricultural livelihoods arising from drought and moisture
more than 15 crops in 12 states have been covered
stress. The programme is aligned to Jal Shakti Abhiyan,
during the year as part of demand management. Studies
the flagship initiative of Government of India for water
have been conducted by ICAR’s Agricultural Technology
conservation. The programme promotes the development
Application Research Institute, Kanpur, Indian Institute of
and management of local water resources in
Rice Research, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and
moisture-stressed areas by facilitating community
Vasantdada Sugar Institute to estimate water savings
participation in planning and implementing such
in rice, wheat, sugarcane, coconut and banana in
measures, as well as building, reviving and maintaining
your Company’s programme locations. Basis these
water-harvesting structures and thus conserving the
studies and other research documents, it is estimated
wetland ecosystems. In addition to rural and agri
focus, two urban water programmes are also being that the demand management practices promoted
implemented in Bengaluru and Chennai aimed at by your Company have led to potential water savings
addressing the challenges associated with urban water. to the tune of over 1,400 million kl during the year.
These programmes facilitate revival of urban water bodies, To improve water use efficiency, prototypes and pilots
targeted recharge of shallow aquifers and promotion also have been initiated to test efficacy of technologies
of practices like roof water harvesting and water like organic hydrogel, mobile drip system and smart
efficient taps. irrigation switches.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 103

[PAGE 122]
Report of the Board of Directors
Additionally, your Company is continuing existing native species tree planting in the catchments. During the
partnerships and forging new ones with multiple state year, your Company’s biodiversity conservation initiative
Government departments for Water Stewardship. covered over 1.76 lakh acres in 40 districts across
Your Company has signed three new partnerships 10 states, taking the cumulative area under biodiversity
during the year with: conservation to over 6.47 lakh acres. While the
conservation work is being carried out in village commons,
Water Resource Department, Government of
Maharashtra for Securing Godavari, Krishna and this intervention significantly benefits the agricultural
Tapi river basins flowing in Maharashtra by promoting activity in the vicinity of these plots through soil moisture
Water Literacy among the Water User Associations retention, carbon sequestration and by acting as host to
in 60 irrigation projects across 20 districts in these insects and birds beneficial to agriculture. Two technical
basins which will improve water resources. studies done earlier by ‘The Energy and Resources
Institute’ (TERI) & ‘IORA Ecological Solutions’ have
Department of Rural Development & Panchayat
recorded improvement in carbon stocks, i.e., carbon
Raj (RDPR), Government of Karnataka and
sequestered by trees, as well as floral and faunal
Vyakti Vikas Kendra India, for Water Resources
biodiversity compared to control areas. The project on
Development in South Pennar river basin to work
mangroves conservation, which are important biodiversity
on water stewardship programme in 12 Taluks and
reservoirs in coastal areas has been further strengthened.
238 Gram Panchayats in Bengaluru Urban,
Initiated in Andhra Pradesh in FY 2023-24, another
Bengaluru Rural, Kolar & Chikkaballapur districts
of Karnataka. 1,000 acres was conserved during the year, thus taking
the cumulative area to 1,500 acres. Alongside mangroves
Watershed Development and Soil Conservation
conservation, olive ridley turtle conservation was also
Department, Government of Rajasthan, to promote
taken up, wherein the eggs laid by turtles are protected
sustainable livelihoods based on a watershed
from natural predators by moving them to hatcheries
development project in 22 Gram Panchayats of
established along the coast and then releasing the
Bundi and Jhalawar districts covering an area of
hatchlings into sea. During the year, 9,200 turtle eggs
44,000 acres.
were successfully hatched and released into the sea.
Driven by your Company’s Water Stewardship
To increase the coverage for pastureland development
programme, three Cigarette units at Pune, Bengaluru &
and biodiversity conservation, your Company has a
Saharanpur, three Branded Packaged Foods units at
partnership with AP Panchayat Raj and Rural Development
Mysuru, Pune & Kapurthala, two Paperboards units at
Department to improve livelihoods and conserve village
Kovai & Bhadrachalam and GLT unit at Mysuru have
received AWS certifications in Platinum category till date. commons in nine districts. Your Company also has a
partnership with Wasteland & Pastureland Development
Natural Resources Management - Biodiversity Board (WPDB), Rajasthan targeting coverage of
2.5 lakh acres across eight districts. Till date,
The focus of the programme is on reviving ecosystem
1.75 lakh acres have been covered across 6,200 villages
services provided to agriculture such as natural regulation
of pests, pollination, nutrient cycling, soil health retention leveraging Government resources. In the partnership with
and genetic diversity, which have witnessed considerable Forest Department of Maharashtra, efforts towards soil
erosion over the past few decades. The said programme and moisture conservation in the forest and fringe areas
is also aligned to Government of India’s flagship initiatives of Pune district was progressed with Department staff
such as National Mission for Sustainable Habitat and trained by your Company in planning and implementing
Mangrove Initiative for Shoreline Habitats & Tangible the watershed work. Post training, Forest Department
Incomes (MISHTI). Biodiversity conservation is done took up soil and moisture conservation works and
through restoration of degraded village commons and tree plantation covering over 11,000 acres.
104 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 123]
Report of the Board of Directors
Climate Smart Agriculture Smart Watersheds, and the other with Farmer Welfare
and Agriculture Development, Department of
The Climate Smart Agriculture programme attempts to
Madhya Pradesh covering 6 districts. During the year,
de-risk farmers from erratic weather events through the
training was conducted by ITC for the officials, post which
promotion and adaptation of a climate resilient approach
they have initiated work in 8,200 villages.
premised on dissemination of relevant package of
practices, adoption of appropriate mechanisation and During the year, knowledge was disseminated
provision of institutional services. The said programme through 13,500 Farmer Field Schools and over
is also aligned to Government of India’s flagship 17,600 Choupal Pradarshan Khets (CPKs).
initiative of The National Innovations in Climate Resilient 1,850 Agri Business Centres (ABC) including
Agriculture (NICRA) and other schemes for the welfare 620 exclusive women ABCs delivered extension services,
of farmers including Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi arranged agri-credit linkages, established collective
(PM-KISAN) Yojana. Currently, 31.70 lakh acres spread input procurement and provided agricultural equipment
over 100 districts across 19 states and 12 lakh farmers for hire.
including over 1.87 lakh women farmers are covered
Your Company, with its presence across multiple
under the programme. As per the studies done by reputed
commodities and geographies including the e-Choupal
ICAR - Agricultural Technology Application Research
network and agri extension programmes network,
Institute, Kanpur, the CSA practices promoted in rice
undertook an initiative to facilitate formation of new Farmer
and wheat crops together has demonstrated reduction of
Producer Organisations (FPOs) and/or strengthening
upto 21% in costs and upto 8% and 23% improvement
existing FPOs, thus enhancing farm incomes, rural
in yields and incomes respectively as compared to
livelihood and partnering in other relevant rural
conventional practices followed.
development initiatives. During the year, your Company
In pursuit of your Company’s long-term sustainability supported additional 390 FPOs taking the cumulative
objective of increasing Soil Organic Carbon (SOC), more number to 2,050 FPOs.
than 6,300 compost units were constructed during the
The ‘Adarsh Gram Programme’ pioneered by your
year, taking the total number till date to over 67,300 units.
Company’s Agri Business presently covers 484 model
In addition to promotion of Climate Smart Agri practices at
villages in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka.
scale, in core agricultural catchments, your Company also
Under this initiative, your Company supports villages
has a Climate Smart Village (CSV) programme, wherein
to become economically, ecologically and socially
support is provided to majority of the village population
sustainable. Your Company is also addressing the human
to enable adaptation to climate risks, and mitigating the
rights and farm safety challenges in these villages by
same through knowledge dissemination, natural resources
educating the farmers, labour & community, providing
management, livelihood diversification and institutional
access to Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and
support. 7,000 CSVs covering major crop value chains
adopting smart technologies like drones for spraying
are currently part of the programme. To provide additional
activities on the farms.
support to farmers in dealing with climate risks, during the
year, 17.65 lakh linkages were facilitated for farmers with
Off-farm Livelihood Diversification - Livestock
six major Government schemes, taking the cumulative to
Development
over 42 lakhs.
The purpose of the programme is to improve income and
Details of Climate Smart Agriculture interventions are also
de-risk livelihoods of rural households by strengthening
provided in the section on ‘Socio-Economic Environment’.
animal dependant livelihood options. Capability building
Your Company continued work on two partnerships, one on improved package of practices, breed improvement,
with Rajiv Gandhi Mission for Watershed Management provision of extension services and creation of rural
covering 35 districts of Madhya Pradesh for Climate entrepreneurs to provide doorstep services are the key
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 105