[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 229-231

[PAGE 229]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
evaluation of performance. There is a risk of revenue Tested the effectiveness of such controls over
being recorded before control is transferred. revenue cut off at year-end.
Refer Note 1 to the Standalone Ind AS Financial On sample basis, tested supporting documentation
Statements - Material Accounting Policies and Note for sales transactions recorded during the year which
22A / 22B. included sales invoices, customer contracts and
shipping documents.
Performed an increased level of substantive testing
in respect of sales transactions recorded during the
period closer to the year end and subsequent to the
year end.
Compared revenue with historical trends and where
appropriate, conducted further enquiries and testing.
Assessed disclosures in financial statements in
respect of revenue, as specified in Ind AS 115.
Accounting for demerger of Hotels business
The Company, in the current year, has given effect to Our audit procedures included the following:
the scheme of demerger of Hotels business (demerged
Obtained and read the Scheme and final order passed
undertaking) into ITC Hotels Limited (ITCHL) pursuant
by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal to
to the Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’). The Scheme
understand its key terms and conditions.
was approved by the Hon’ble National Company
Evaluated the design and tested the operating
Law Tribunal, Kolkata bench vide its order dated
effectiveness of the internal financial controls
October 04, 2024 and the appointed date and the
(including management review controls) relevant
effective date of the Scheme is January 01, 2025.
for recording the impact of the Scheme and related
By virtue of this scheme being effective in the current
disclosures.
year, the said demerged undertaking has been disclosed
Tested the Management’s working for identification
as discontinued operations till the effective date of the
of specific assets and liabilities of the demerged
demerger.
undertaking and relevant impact in the reserves as
At the appointed and effective date, the Hotels business
per the Scheme.
of the Company (along with all assets and liabilities
Assessed the appropriateness of accounting
thereof, excluding ITC Grand Central, Mumbai) and the
treatment of this demerger and compared with
investments held by the Company in Hospitality entities
applicable Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) and
as defined in the Scheme were transferred to ITCHL on
the approved accounting treatment in the Scheme.
a going concern basis in accordance with the approved
Scheme. Obtained the report of the management’s expert for
determination of fair value of demerged undertaking.
Demerger is a significant non-routine transaction
Evaluated the competence and objectivity of the
and requires determination of fair value of demerged
management’s expert.
undertaking for the purposes of accounting as
per Ind AS which involves significant judgements Involved our valuation specialist to review the
and estimates which are sensitive to underlying appropriateness of methodology and key assumptions
assumptions (forecast of future cash flows, growth rate, considered by management to determine fair value of
weighted average cost of capital, discount rates etc). the demerged undertaking.
These judgements / estimates could have an impact
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the
on the recognition of the amount of liability for assets
disclosures made with respect to the accounting of
to be distributed to shareholders at fair value and the
the transaction as required by the applicable Ind AS.
consequential gain as recognised in the standalone Ind
AS financial statements.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 211

[PAGE 230]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Due to the magnitude and complexity of the transaction,
and considering the assumptions and estimates
required to be made by the management for the
purpose of accounting and presentation / disclosures
in the standalone Ind AS financial statements, this is
considered as a key audit matter.
Refer Note 29(x) to the standalone Ind AS financial
statements.
We have determined that there are no other key audit making judgements and estimates that are reasonable and
matters to communicate in our report. prudent; and the design, implementation and maintenance
of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating
Information Other than the Financial Statements and
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of
Auditor’s Report Thereon
the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
presentation of the standalone Ind AS financial statements
other information. The other information comprises the
that give a true and fair view and are free from material
information included in the Annual Report, but does not
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
include the standalone Ind AS financial statements and
In preparing the standalone Ind AS financial statements,
our auditor’s report thereon.
management is responsible for assessing the Company’s
Our opinion on the standalone Ind AS financial statements
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
does not cover the other information and we do not
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
going concern basis of accounting unless management
In connection with our audit of the standalone Ind AS either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
information and, in doing so, consider whether such other
Those Board of Directors are also responsible for
information is materially inconsistent with the standalone
overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
Ind AS financial statements or our knowledge obtained in
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the
the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of this other information, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to whether the standalone Ind AS financial statements as
report in this regard. a whole are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
Responsibilities of Management for the Standalone
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high
Ind AS Financial Statements
level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
The Company’s Board of Directors is responsible for the
conducted in accordance with SAs will always detect a
matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can
preparation of these standalone Ind AS financial statements
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,
that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
performance including other comprehensive income, cash
expected to influence the economic decisions of users
flows and changes in equity of the Company in accordance
taken on the basis of these standalone Ind AS financial
with the accounting principles generally accepted in India,
statements.
including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) specified
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise
under section 133 of the Act read with the Companies
professional judgement and maintain professional
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended.
skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement
the Act for safeguarding of the assets of the Company and of the standalone Ind AS financial statements,
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; whether due to fraud or error, design and perform
selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
212 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 231]
Independent Auditor’s Report
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate Ind AS financial statements for the financial year ended
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not March 31, 2025 and are therefore the key audit matters.
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless
is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. determine that a matter should not be communicated in
our report because the adverse consequences of doing
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
interest benefits of such communication.
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i)
of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
our opinion on whether the Company has adequate 1. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order,
internal financial controls with reference to financial 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of of India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of
such controls. the Act, we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to
and related disclosures made by management. the extent applicable, that:
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use (a) We have sought and obtained all the information
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based and explanations which to the best of our knowledge
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material and belief were necessary for the purposes of our
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that audit;
may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that by law have been kept by the Company so far as it
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to appears from our examination of those books;
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related
(c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such
and Loss including the Statement of Other
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Cash
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained
Flows and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future
with by this Report are in agreement with the books
events or conditions may cause the Company to cease
of account;
to continue as a going concern.
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and
financial statements comply with the Accounting
content of the standalone Ind AS financial statements,
Standards specified under Section 133 of the
including the disclosures, and whether the standalone
Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting
Ind AS financial statements represent the underlying
Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
(e) On the basis of the written representations received
presentation.
from the directors as on March 31, 2025 taken
We communicate with those charged with governance
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including being appointed as a director in terms of Section
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 164 (2) of the Act;
identify during our audit.
(f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal
We also provide those charged with governance financial controls with reference to these standalone
with a statement that we have complied with relevant Ind AS financial statements and the operating
ethical requirements regarding independence, and effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate
to communicate with them all relationships and other Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
(g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
year ended March 31, 2025 has been paid / provided
From the matters communicated with those charged by the Company to its directors in accordance with
with governance, we determine those matters that the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V
were of most significance in the audit of the standalone to the Act;
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 213