[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 336-338

[PAGE 336]
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of ITC Limited
Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Ind AS Financial described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of
Statements the Consolidated Ind AS Financial Statements’ section of
our report. We are independent of the Group, associates,
Opinion joint ventures in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’
We have audited the accompanying consolidated Ind AS issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India
financial statements of ITC Limited (hereinafter referred to together with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
as “the Holding Company”), its subsidiaries (the Holding our audit of the financial statements under the provisions
Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled
“the Group”) its associates and joint ventures comprising our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that
the consolidated Balance Sheet as at March 31 2025, the
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss, including Other
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
Comprehensive Income, the consolidated Statement
consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
of Cash Flows and the consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity for the year then ended, and notes to
Key Audit Matters
the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, including
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional
a summary of material accounting policies and other
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the
explanatory information.
consolidated Ind AS financial statements for the financial
In our opinion and to the best of our information and year ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed
according to the explanations given to us and based on in the context of our audit of the consolidated Ind AS
the consideration of reports of other auditors on separate financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion
financial statements and on the other financial information thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these
of the subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, the matters. For each matter below, our description of how
aforesaid consolidated Ind AS financial statements give our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.
the information required by the Companies Act, 2013, as
We have determined the matters described below to be the
amended (“the Act”) in the manner so required and give
key audit matters to be communicated in our report. We
a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting
have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s
principles generally accepted in India, of the consolidated
responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated Ind AS
state of affairs of the Group, its associates and
financial statements section of our report, including in
joint ventures as at March 31, 2025, their consolidated
relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included
profit including other comprehensive income, their
the performance of procedures designed to respond to our
consolidated cash flows and the changes in equity for the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the
year ended on that date. consolidated Ind AS financial statements. The results of
audit procedures performed by us and by other auditors of
Basis for Opinion
components not audited by us, as reported by them in their
We conducted our audit of the consolidated Ind AS audit reports furnished to us by the management, including
financial statements in accordance with the Standards on those procedures performed to address the matters
Auditing (SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of the below, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the
Act. Our responsibilities under those Standards are further accompanying consolidated Ind AS financial statements.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods (hereinafter referred to Our audit procedures included the following:
as “Revenue”) is recognised when the Group performs
Assessed the Group’s revenue recognition accounting
its obligations to its customers and the amount of
policies in line with Ind AS 115 (“Revenue from
revenue can be measured reliably and recovery of the
Contracts with Customers”) and tested thereof.
consideration is probable. The timing of such recognition
Evaluated the integrity of the general information
in case of sale of goods is when the control over the
and technology control environment and testing the
same is transferred to the customer, which is mainly
operating effectiveness of key IT application controls
upon delivery.
over recognition of revenue.
318 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 337]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
The timing of revenue recognition is relevant to the Evaluated the design, implementation and operating
reported performance of the Group. The management effectiveness of Group’s controls in respect of revenue
considers revenue as a key measure for evaluation of recognition.
performance. There is a risk of revenue being recorded
Tested the effectiveness of such controls over
before control is transferred.
revenue cut off at year-end.
Refer Note 1 to the Consolidated Ind AS Financial
On a sample basis, tested supporting documentation
Statements - Material Accounting Policies and
for sales transactions recorded during the year which
Note 23A / 23B.
included sales invoices, customer contracts and
shipping documents.
Performed an increased level of substantive testing
in respect of sales transactions recorded during the
period closer to the year end and subsequent to the
year end.
Compared revenue with historical trends and where
appropriate, conducted further enquiries and testing.
Assessed disclosures in financial statements in
respect of revenue, as specified in Ind AS 115.
Accounting for demerger of Hotels business
The Group, in the current year, has given effect to the Our audit procedures included the following:
scheme of demerger of Hotels business (demerged
Obtained and read the Scheme and final order passed
undertaking) into ITC Hotels Limited (ITCHL) pursuant
by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal to
to the Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’). The Scheme
understand its key terms and conditions.
was approved by the Hon’ble National Company
Evaluated the design and tested the operating
Law Tribunal, Kolkata bench vide its order dated
effectiveness of the internal financial controls
October 04, 2024 and the appointed date and the
(including management review controls) relevant
effective date of the Scheme is January 01, 2025.
for recording the impact of the Scheme and related
By virtue of this scheme being effective in the current year,
disclosures.
the said demerged undertaking has been disclosed
Tested the Management’s working for identification
as discontinued operations till the effective date of the
of specific assets and liabilities of the demerged
demerger.
undertaking and relevant impact in the reserves as
At the appointed and effective date, the Hotels business
per the Scheme.
of the Company (along with all assets and liabilities
Assessed the appropriateness of accounting treatment
thereof, excluding ITC Grand Central, Mumbai) and
of this demerger and compared with applicable Indian
the net assets of Hospitality entities as defined in the
Accounting Standards (Ind AS) and the approved
Scheme were transferred to ITCHL on a going concern
accounting treatment in the Scheme.
basis in accordance with the approved Scheme.
Obtained the report of the management’s expert for
Demerger is a significant non-routine transaction
determination of fair value of demerged undertaking.
and requires determination of fair value of demerged
Evaluated the competence and objectivity of the
undertaking for the purposes of accounting as per
management’s expert.
Ind AS which involves significant judgements and
estimates which are sensitive to underlying assumptions Involved our valuation specialist to review the
(forecast of future cash flows, growth rate, weighted appropriateness of methodology and key assumptions
average cost of capital, discount rates etc). These considered by management to determine fair value of
judgements / estimates could have an impact on the the demerged undertaking.
recognition of the amount of liability for assets to
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the
be distributed to shareholders at fair value and the
disclosures made with respect to the accounting of
consequential gain as recognised in the consolidated
the transaction as required by the applicable Ind AS.
Ind AS financial statements.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 319

[PAGE 338]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Due to the magnitude and complexity of the transaction,
and considering the assumptions and estimates
required to be made by the management for the
purpose of accounting and presentation / disclosures
in the consolidated Ind AS financial statements, this is
considered as a key audit matter.
Refer Note 30(viii) to the consolidated Ind AS financial
statements.
We have determined that there are no other key audit matters to communicate in our report.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015,
Auditor’s Report Thereon as amended. The respective Board of Directors of the
companies included in the Group and of its associates
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible
for the other information. The other information comprises and joint ventures are responsible for maintenance of
the information included in the Annual report, but does not adequate accounting records in accordance with the
include the consolidated Ind AS financial statements and provisions of the Act for safeguarding of the assets of their
our auditor’s report thereon. respective companies and for preventing and detecting
frauds and other irregularities; selection and application
Our opinion on the consolidated Ind AS financial
of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments
statements does not cover the other information and we
and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
the design, implementation and maintenance of
In connection with our audit of the consolidated Ind AS
adequate internal financial controls, that were operating
financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness
information and, in doing so, consider whether such other
of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation
information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated
and presentation of the consolidated Ind AS financial
Ind AS financial statements or our knowledge obtained in
statements that give a true and fair view and are free
the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
which have been used for the purpose of preparation
there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to of the consolidated Ind AS financial statements by the
report in this regard. Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
In preparing the consolidated Ind AS financial statements,
Responsibilities of Management for the Consolidated
the respective Board of Directors of the companies included
Ind AS Financial Statements
in the Group and of its associates and joint ventures
The Holding Company’s Board of Directors is responsible
are responsible for assessing the ability of their respective
for the preparation and presentation of these consolidated
companies to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
Ind AS financial statements in terms of the requirements
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
of the Act that give a true and fair view of the consolidated
going concern basis of accounting unless management
financial position, consolidated financial performance
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations,
including other comprehensive income, consolidated
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
cash flows and changes in equity of the Group including
its associates and joint ventures in accordance with Those respective Board of Directors of the companies
the accounting principles generally accepted in India, included in the Group and of its associates and joint
including the Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) ventures are also responsible for overseeing the financial
specified under section 133 of the Act read with the reporting process of their respective companies.
320 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025