[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 357-359

[PAGE 357]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
S. Material Indicate Rationale For In Case Of Risk, Approach To Financial Implications Of
No. Issue Whether Risk Identifying The Adapt Or Mitigate The Risk Or Opportunity
Identified Or Opportunity Risk/Opportunity (Indicate Positive Or
(R/O) Negative Implications)
o Less Plastics: Progressive • Disruptions in the supply
reduction in plastic chain for recycled plastic
packaging intensity over or plastic packaging
time, and introducing substitutes as required
Post-Consumer Recycled by law, could impact
(PCR) content in plastic the Company’s ability
packaging, wherever to comply, produce and
permitted by regulations; distribute products;
o Better Plastics: Ensuring • Inability to provide
100% of packaging is sustainable alternatives
could have a negative
reusable, recyclable or
impact on consumer
compostable/ biodegradable
sentiment.
by improving recyclability
of multi-layer laminate
packaging, phasing out
hard to recycle plastics,
and exploring alternative
packaging materials with
lower environmental
impact including bio-based
compostable plastics.
• Partner with upstream
players and suppliers
for ensuring supply of
Post-Consumer Recycled
(PCR) plastic for meeting
regulatory/market demand
for increasing recycled
content in plastic packaging;
• Sustain plastic neutrality
through behavioural change
programmes to ensure
segregation of waste
at source, and creating
replicable, scalable and
sustainable models of plastic
waste management; work
with recycling partners for
developing viable recycling
options for Multi-Layered
Plastic (MLP) packaging;
• Ensure a robust compliance
management system
supported by internal and
external process review;
additionally, undertake third
party assurance of underlying
data related to plastic waste
generation and collection.
3 Talent Risk Inability to attract and Risk Mitigation Strategy Potential impact
Management retain high quality • Strengthen and • Lack of requisite
talent in a highly communicate ITC’s talent quality of management
competitive market. proposition about ‘Building personnel could
Winning Businesses. adversely affect business
Building Business Leaders operations and long-
Creating Value for India; term growth prospects;
• Provide meaningful and • Talent attrition beyond
challenging roles which acceptable levels may
enrich individual capability impact ability to
X

[PAGE 358]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
S. Material Indicate Rationale For In Case Of Risk, Approach To Financial Implications Of
No. Issue Whether Risk Identifying The Adapt Or Mitigate The Risk Or Opportunity
Identified Or Opportunity Risk/Opportunity (Indicate Positive Or
(R/O) Negative Implications)
and act as a powerful incentive to effectively fulfil
stay, learn and grow; organisational goals and
• Build a robust talent pipeline customer expectations.
across responsibility levels
through requisite quality in key
roles, depth of bench and reliable
succession plans;
• Invest in capability building of
managers through access to
the best-in-class upskilling
programmes and development
interventions;
• Recognise and nurture specialism
so that employees who wish to
focus on niche, business critical
skills can continue to grow in their
area of expertise;
• Benchmark compensation to
the relevant market periodically,
ensuring strong alignment
with short-term and long-term
performance, particularly at senior
levels and ring-fencing top talent;
• Ensure the talent quotient in
the Company remains healthy
and vibrant through annual
segmentation supported
by differential rewards and
progression opportunities for
industry leading talent;
• Energise and nurture pride in
membership through frequent
leadership outreach to managers;
• Engage with the country’s
premier academic institutions to
communicate the Company’s talent
proposition through case-study
competitions, knowledge-sharing
programmes by senior managers
and the annual internship
programmes creating a compelling
proposition for the best candidates
to aspire for a career with the
Company;
• Promote Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion through supportive
polices based on principles of
equity;
• Implement measures to ensure
sufficient representation of women
in selection pools and deployment
of the differently-abled across
suitable opportunities in the
value chain towards meeting the
diversity and inclusion goals of the
organisation;
• Agile HR practices to provide
contemporary and relevant work
policies to employees such as
flexible work arrangements.
XI

[PAGE 359]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as brought out by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:
P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent
and accountable
P2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6 Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
P7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is
responsible and transparent
P8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Policy and Management Processes
1. a. Whether your entity’s Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
policy/policies cover each
ITC has a comprehensive set of Board-approved Policies that cover NGRBC principles (P1 to P9)
principle and its core
and the underlying core elements.
elements of the NGRBCs.
To achieve its Sustainability 2.0 vision, the Company continues to strengthen its management
(Yes/No)
approach which is guided by a comprehensive set of Sustainability Policies that are being
implemented across the organisation. The Company continues to strengthen the mechanisms
of engagement with key stakeholders, identification of material sustainability issues and
progressively monitoring and mitigating the impacts along the value chain of each Business.
The Company will continue to update these systems and processes in line with the evolving
disclosure standards and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) requirements.
The overall responsibility for ensuring the implementation of Sustainability Policies resides
with the Divisional / Strategic Business Unit (SBU) Chief Executives and the Heads of Corporate
Functions who work with their respective management teams. Various committees designated
with specific responsibilities have also been constituted for operationalising these Policies.
The Sustainability Compliance Review Committee comprising senior and other members
of management has the overall responsibility to monitor and evaluate compliance with
these Policies.
The responsibility for implementation of ITC’s CSR Policy rests with the Corporate Social
Investments Programme (SIP) Team.
b. Has the policy been approved Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
by the Board? (Yes/No)
c. Web Link of the Policies, if
https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/index.aspx
available
2. Whether the entity has Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
translated the policy into
procedures. (Yes / No)
3. Do the enlisted policies Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Not Yes Yes
extend to your value chain Applicable
partners? (Yes/No)
4. Name of the national Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
and international codes/
- Food Safety OHSAS ISAE SA 8000: Social ISO 14001: NGRBC - ATNI
certifications/labels/
Management 18001/ 3000 Accountability, Environment Framework,
standards (e.g. Forest System (FSSC ISO 45001: United Nations Management FSSAI, BRCGS
Stewardship Council, 22000/ISO Occupational Guiding System, and Packaging
22000/HACCP)
Fairtrade, Rainforest Health Principles on Alliance Materials
Responsible
Alliance, Trustea) Supply Chain and Safety Business and for Water Global
standards (e.g. SA 8000, Certifications Management Human Rights, Stewardship Standard,
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted like Rainforest Systems Sustainable (AWS), LEED® HACCP, Sedex,
Alliance (RFA) Tobacco Certification NPOP, NOP,
by your entity and mapped
and Forest Programme, for Green Halal and
to each principle. Stewardship RFA, FSC® Building, Kosher
Council® LEED® Zero
(FSC®)
Carbon
For more information on Environment, Social, Occupational Health and Safety, Food Safety
Certifications and Sustainable Farming Certifications, refer to ‘Certifications’ section of ITC
Sustainability Report 2025.
XII