[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 87-89

[PAGE 87]
Report of the Board of Directors
also received Alliance for Water Stewardship Platinum Over the years, your Company has continued to lay
certification. Bhadrachalam mill was also awarded the thrust on structural interventions to provide sustainable
‘Excellent Energy Efficient unit’ at National Awards for competitive advantage across the value chain with
Energy Management, 2024. The Kovai Unit was awarded significant structural cost savings and enhanced
for Excellence in water Management, 2024, under the productivity across all key operating nodes to enhance the
’Beyond the Fence’ category.
margin profile of its portfolio.
With structural drivers of demand in the Indian economy
The integrated nature of your Company’s business
remaining strong over the medium term, paperboards
model - comprising access to high-quality, cost competitive
demand is expected to remain robust. Enabling
and renewable fibre supply chain, continued development
factors include India’s emerging demographic trends,
of high yielding and disease-resistant clonal saplings,
urbanisation, rising middle class, continued substitution
enhancing energy efficiency, continuous improvement
of plastic with greener alternatives and India emerging as
through product & process innovation, in-house pulp
the Global manufacturing hub. End-user segments such
manufacturing capability, imported pulp substitution,
as Pharmaceuticals, Apparel, QSR, FMCG, consumer
world-class product quality, state-of-the-art manufacturing
durables and e-Commerce are projected to register strong
facilities, increasing usage of data analytics and
growth. Writing & Printing paper demand is also expected
Industry 4.0 technologies along with robust forward
to remain firm on the back of demand from the publishing
linkages with the Education and Stationery Products
and notebooks industries driven by the Government’s
Business and the Packaging and Printing Business - is a
thrust on primary and secondary education.
key source of competitive advantage for your Company’s
While cheap imports from China as well as from ASEAN
Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business. Your Company
countries remain a potential threat in the short run, the
is confident of further consolidating its leadership position
Business remains confident of leveraging its competitive
in the Indian Paper and Paperboards industry leveraging
strengths to mitigate the impact thereof. Representations
recent investments in innovation platforms anchored on
continue to be made at appropriate forums for suitable
the development of sustainable products and cutting-edge
measures to safeguard domestic industry. Directorate
digital technologies to set new benchmarks in customer
General of Trade Remedies (DGTR), Ministry of
satisfaction, operational excellence, and sustainability.
Commerce and Industry, India has also initiated an
Anti-Dumping investigation on Virgin Paperboard
Packaging and Printing
originating from China and Chile. Indian Paper
Manufacturers Association (IPMA), National Industry Your Company’s Packaging and Printing Business
body has also approached Ministry of Commerce for is a leading provider of value-added, differentiated
considering imposition of Minimum Import Price (MIP) on and innovative packaging solutions leveraging its
import of paperboards into India. comprehensive capability-set spanning multiple
technology platforms for cartons and laminates,
Your Company continues to engage with policy makers
to address key industry challenges including increasing supported by in-house cylinder making and blown film
wood availability through collaborative public-private manufacturing lines. The recent capacity addition at
plantation models to strengthen the competitiveness of Nadiad, Gujarat, with state-of-the-art equipment to cater
domestic industry and arrest the rapid increase of low to markets in the Western region, has further augmented
priced imports of paper & paperboard into the country. the Business’ capabilities in Cartons packaging. Capacity
Your Company’s Packaging and Printing Business is a leading provider
of value-added, differentiated and innovative packaging solutions leveraging its
comprehensive capability-set spanning multiple technology platforms for cartons and
laminates, supported by in-house cylinder making and blown film manufacturing lines.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 69

[PAGE 88]
Report of the Board of Directors
utilisation at the facility was progressively ramped up The Business has consistently demonstrated execution
during the year. excellence vis-à-vis key operational parameters by
implementing various operational excellence tools and
The Business caters to the packaging requirements of
projects. These initiatives focus on improving efficiency,
leading players across several industry segments viz.
reducing waste, and enhancing quality, supported by
Food & Beverage, Personal Care, Home Care, Footwear,
employee skill development. The Business amplified
Consumer Electronics & Electricals, QSR, Pharma,
and sustained these benefits through deployment of
Liquor and Tobacco. The Business continues to be
new-age Industry 4.0 technologies and digital facilitation
acknowledged as a ‘first choice packaging partner’ by
by establishing a core foundation of IT-OT integration
several reputed FMCG companies in the country for
across all units.
providing superior and cost-effective packaging solutions.
During the year, the Business received the prestigious
The Business also provides strategic support to your
WorldStar and AsiaStar awards in the categories of
Company’s FMCG Businesses and Cigarettes Business
pack premiumisation and sustainability. The Business
by facilitating faster turnaround for new launches,
also received several national level awards such as the
innovative & sustainable packaging solutions, design
IFCA Star Award and SIES SOP Star Award for
changes and ensuring security of supplies.
its excellence in Packaging. The Business was
Amidst sluggish consumer demand and heightened also recognised as the Packaging Company of the
competitive intensity in the packaging and printing industry, Year 2024 - Folding Cartons (Large Volumes) & Packaging
the Business continues to aggressively pursue new Convertor of the Year 2024 (Foods & Beverages)
business development across various segments. During by PrintWeek.
the year, the Business acquired several key accounts,
All four units of the Business are certified under
creating a sound base for robust growth going forward.
the Integrated Management System, consisting of
The Business continues to craft innovative packaging ISO 9001:2015, ISO 14001:2015 and ISO 45001:2018.
solutions leveraging its deep understanding of Cartons Packaging lines at Tiruvottiyur and Haridwar
end-user needs and the capabilities of your Company’s units received the ‘Grade A’ and the Nadiad unit received
Life Sciences and Technology Centre. The Business ‘Grade AA’ - Brand Reputation Compliance Global
further scaled up the flagship ‘InnovPack’ campaign Standards (BRCGS) certifications for global standards in
targeting specific end-use segments with potential for packaging materials, a key accreditation for supplies to
rapid adoption of sustainable packaging and plastic the packaged foods industry. All key units of the Business
substitution solutions. Along with a pipeline of solutions have Sedex certifications for social ethical compliances;
developed through molecular science research, such as with the Business also receiving the Ecovadis Bronze
‘Bioseal’ (compostable coating to replace plastics), certification for sustainability performance.
‘Oxyblock’ (recyclable coating solution to enhance barrier Notwithstanding the recent headwinds in the sector, the
properties in packaging) and ‘Germ free coating’ (solution Indian packaging industry is positioned for significant
for microbial free packaging surface addressing the growth in the near term, considering the low per capita
consumer consciousness towards hygiene and safety), packaging consumption of appx. 10 kgs per annum
the Business continued to focus on developing several in India as against per capita consumption of
innovative solutions towards ‘Reducing, Reusing and 60 to 100 kgs per annum in Advanced Economies.
Recycling’ of plastic substrates; these are under various Demand for consumer linked packaging in India is
stages of commercialisation. expected to be further benefited by rising affluence,
Your Company’s Packaging and Printing Business further scaled up
the flagship ‘InnovPack’ campaign targeting specific end-use segments with
potential for rapid adoption of sustainable packaging and
plastic substitution solutions.
70 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 89]
Report of the Board of Directors
favourable demographics and growing share of with international buyers of Indian Burley tobacco by
Modern Trade and e-Commerce. Growing awareness facilitating increased crop production, adopting Weather
of decarbonisation and heightened regulatory attention Resilient Tobacco Production Systems and strengthening
on plastic packaging are expected to drive growth crop competitiveness leveraging its sustainable tobacco
in sustainable packaging, including recyclable and programme. Deeper farmer & customer engagement,
circular solutions. operational agility and supply chain efficiency enabled
the Business to deliver enhanced value to customers and
With world-class technology across a diverse range of
consolidate its pre-eminent position as the largest Indian
platforms, leadership in sustainable packaging solutions
exporter of unmanufactured tobacco.
and best-in-class quality management systems, the
Packaging and Printing Business has established itself The Business has enhanced focus across the tobacco
as a one-stop packaging solutions provider to several value chain on the key vectors of Quality, Consistency,
industry segments viz. Food & Beverage, Personal Care, Compliance, Climate risk mitigation and Sustainability.
Home Care, QSR, Footwear, Consumer Electronics, To deliver on these parameters, sustained investments
Pharma and Tobacco. With focused investments in are being made in your Company’s Green Leaf Threshing
skill development and a distributed manufacturing plants (GLT) at Anaparthi, Chirala and Mysuru towards
footprint, the Business is well positioned to grow its capacity enhancement, delivering world-class quality and
marquee customer base while continuing to service the upgrading processing technology. Crop & region-specific
requirements of your Company’s FMCG Businesses. agronomic practices are being implemented at scale to
meet new and emerging customer needs.
AGRI BUSINESS
The Business continues to set benchmarks in leaf
Leaf Tobacco threshing operations through focused initiatives and
innovative technological & digital solutions such as real
Global demand for leaf tobacco exceeded supply during the
time chemistry measurement & analysis (chemosensory
year, due to supply disruptions in major sourcing regions
evaluation) for finished goods, Historian AI/ML engine for
caused by adverse weather events and international
advanced data analytics, AI based NTRM (Non-Tobacco
manufacturers rebuilding depleted inventory levels from
Related Matter) removal system, automation of material
previous years’ crop shortages. Despite growth in Indian
handling, etc.
Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco crop production during
the year, the surge in global demand caused heightened Strategic cost management remains a key focus area
competitive intensity amongst leaf exporters resulting for the Business. Digital tools such as AI/ML powered
in sharp rise in FCV procurement prices for the third real-time price discovery system continue to be scaled
consecutive year. up facilitating efficient leaf tobacco buying across auction
platforms. Several other digital initiatives, implemented
The Business continued to leverage its deep customer
across the value chain in recent years, have led to improved
relationships, crop development expertise, superior
operating efficiencies in areas of crop development,
product quality, world-class processing facilities and strong
leaf procurement and supply chain.
sustainability credentials to strengthen its position as a
reliable supply chain partner for global customers besides Synergistic R&D initiatives with focus on varietal
accessing new customers/markets. During the year, the development, climate smart farming techniques, farm
Business continued to increase its share of business level digital interventions and usage of water efficient
The Leaf Tobacco Business continued to leverage its deep customer relationships,
crop development expertise, superior product quality, world-class processing facilities and
strong sustainability credentials to strengthen its position as a reliable supply chain partner
for global customers besides accessing new customers/markets.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 71