[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 98-100

[PAGE 98]
Report of the Board of Directors
subsidiary in China and Technico Agri Sciences Limited, The company’s Revenue from Operations for the year
India, a wholly-owned subsidiary of your Company, to stood at ` 158.87 crores (previous year ` 154.07 crores),
global customers. For the year under review: while Net Profit for the year was ` 13.63 crores (previous
year ` 14.90 crores). Total Comprehensive Income
a. Technico Pty Limited, Australia registered a turnover
for the year stood at ` 13.60 crores (previous year
of Australian Dollars (A$) 2.86 million (previous year
` 14.89 crores).
A$ 1.69 million) and a Net Profit of A$ 1.51 million
(previous year A$ 0.81 million). For FY 2024-25, the Board of Directors of the company
has recommended a final dividend of ` 2.00 per
b. Technico Technologies Inc., Canada has wound
equity share of ` 10 each, aggregating ` 14.60 crores
down its seed business operations and is exploring
(previous year final dividend of ` 2.00 per equity share of
other business opportunities in Canada.
` 10 each, aggregating ` 14.60 crores).
c. Technico Asia Holdings Pty Limited, Australia, and
Technico Horticultural (Kunming) Co. Limited, China –
ITC IndiVision Limited
there were no significant events to report with respect
The company is engaged in manufacture and export
to the above companies.
of nicotine and nicotine derivative products. The
Wimco Limited company’s manufacturing facility, situated near Mysuru
has the capability to produce purest nicotine derivatives
The company’s business activities comprise fabrication
conforming to US and EU pharmacopoeia standards.
and assembly of machinery for tube filling, cartoning,
The company undertook extensive product development
wrapping, material handling including conveyor
initiatives, customer trials and business development
solutions and engineering services for the FMCG and
efforts and is well poised to rapidly scale up business
Pharmaceutical industries.
going forward.
During the year, the company monetised the value
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of
of certain identified assets relating to the engineering
` 10.51 crores (previous year ` 1.19 crores) and Net Loss
business thereby strengthening its Balance Sheet.
of ` 55.56 crores (previous year loss of ` 31.12 crores),
The company’s Revenue from Operations for the year
primarily on account of gestation costs and depreciation.
stood at ` 2.60 crores (previous year: ` 3.47 crores)
with a Net Profit of ` 1.45 crores (previous year loss of ITC Fibre Innovations Limited (IFIL)
` 1.88 crores). Total Comprehensive Income for the year
The company manufactures Moulded Fibre Products
stood at ` 1.45 crores (previous year (-) `1.93 crores).
made from renewable natural fibres such as wood and
offers sustainable solutions across industries including
North East Nutrients Private Limited
food service & delivery, FMCG and electronics.
Your Company holds 76% equity stake in North East
Nutrients Private Limited, which has set up a food Commercial production at the company’s state-of-the-art
processing facility in Mangaldoi, Assam, to cater to the manufacturing facility at Badiyakhedi, Madhya Pradesh
biscuits market in Assam and other north-eastern states. commenced in March 2024.
The company continues to focus on consistently improving During the year, the company obtained multiple
operational efficiency and productivity. In recognition of certifications affirming that its products are food contact
its high standards of quality, the company received three safe and environment friendly and conform with the
Gold Awards at the Convention on Quality Concepts 2024, requirements under US Food and Drug Administration,
organised by the Quality Circle Forum of India, German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment and Indian
Durgapur Chapter. The company also received one FSSAI regulations. These certifications enable IFIL
Gold and one Silver Award at the National POKA-YOKE to differentiate its offerings with both domestic and
competition and a Silver Award in the FACE Food Safety international customers. The commercial sales were
& Quality Kaizen Competition, 2024 organised by CII. scaled up during the year post extensive product
80 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 99]
Report of the Board of Directors
development efforts and customer trials. Going forward, ` 10 each, aggregating ` 22.56 crores (previous year
IFIL will leverage the expertise of the Business in fibre ` 14.10 per Equity Share of ` 10 each, aggregating
value chain, manufacturing excellence and strong ` 22.56 crores).
sustainability credentials to rapidly scale-up business
Greenacre Holdings Limited
with continued focus on developing innovative plastic
substitution solutions. During the year ended The company provides maintenance services for
31st March 2025, the company recorded Total Income commercial office buildings, EPC (engineering,
of ` 4.61 crores (previous year ` 1.26 crores) with procurement, construction) management services as well
Net Loss of ` 21.41 crores (previous year loss of as project management consultancy services.
` 3.56 crores), primarily on account of gestation costs
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of
and depreciation.
` 13.46 crores (previous year ` 11.61 crores) and
Net Profit of ` 7.23 crores (previous year ` 2.82 crores).
Russell Credit Limited
The company recorded Total Income of ` 71.91 crores ITC Integrated Business Services Limited
(previous year ` 60.91 crores) and Net Profit of
The company is in the business of providing support to the
` 47.49 crores (previous year ` 39.39 crores). Growth in
Business Shared Services operations of your Company
Total Income was driven by higher surplus liquidity and
and its related entities.
increase in yield of the funds deployed on account of
During the year, the company recorded Total Income
higher market interest rates.
of ` 21.50 crores (previous year ` 12.78 crores) and
During the year, the company transferred its investments Net Profit of ` 1.41 crores (previous year ` 0.60 crore).
in EIH Limited and HLV Limited to your Company at their
respective cost of acquisition which led to reversal of MRR Trading & Investment Company Limited
the mark-to-market gain on the said investments. As a
The company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
result, Total Comprehensive Income for the year stood at
ITC Integrated Business Services Limited, holds
(-) ` 484.29 crores (previous year ` 442.67 crores).
tenancy rights in a commercial building located in
Temporary surplus liquidity of the company is mainly Mumbai and also provides estate maintenance services.
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of
deployed in bonds, debt mutual funds, bank fixed
` 7.58 lakh (previous year ` 7.38 lakh) and Net Profit of
deposits, certificate of deposits, etc. The company
` 0.41 lakh (previous year ` 0.66 lakh).
continues to closely monitor its investments in line with
market interest rate movements and explore opportunities
Pavan Poplar Limited
to make strategic investments for the ITC Group.
The operations of the company continue to be adversely
For FY 2024-25, the company declared final dividend
impacted pursuant to the Order of the Honourable High Court
of ` 0.36 per Equity Share of ` 10 each, aggregating
of Uttarakhand at Nainital in February 2014 dismissing
` 23.27 crores (previous year final dividend of
the Writ Petition filed by the company against the
` 0.30 per Equity Share of ` 10 each, aggregating
Order of the District Magistrate authorising the
` 19.39 crores).
State authorities to take possession of the land leased to
the company. The company had filed an appeal against
Gold Flake Corporation Limited
the aforementioned order of the Honourable High Court
The company holds 50% equity stake in ITC Filtrona Limited. in 2014, which has been pending adjudication.
During the year, the company recorded Total Income of Considering the time and resources involved, the company
` 25.11 crores (previous year ` 24.82 crores) and Net Profit of has since withdrawn the said appeal with the approval of the
` 23.80 crores (previous year ` 23.12 crores). The company Honourable High Court on 7th March 2025. During the year,
declared interim dividend of ` 14.10 per Equity Share of the company recorded Total Income of ` 0.18 crore
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 81

[PAGE 100]
Report of the Board of Directors
(previous year ` 0.14 crore) and Net loss of ` 0.03 crore Logix Developers Private Limited (LDPL)
(previous year loss of ` 0.03 crore).
Logix Developers Private Limited is a joint venture
between your Company and Logix Estates Private Limited
Prag Agro Farm Limited
for developing a luxury hotel-cum-service apartment
The operations of the company continue to be adversely
complex at the company’s leasehold site located at
impacted pursuant to the Order of the Honourable
Sector 105 in New Okhla Industrial Development Authority
High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in February 2014
(NOIDA).
dismissing the writ petition filed by the company against
the Order of the District Magistrate authorising the Your Company presently holds 27.9% equity stake in
State authorities to take possession of the land leased to LDPL. As reported in prior years, your Company reiterated
the company. The company had filed an appeal against its position with the JV partner that it was committed
the aforementioned order of the Honourable High Court
to developing a luxury hotel-cum-service apartment
in 2014, which has been pending adjudication.
complex as envisaged under the JV Agreement and that
Considering the time and resources involved, the company it was not interested in progressing with any alternative
has since withdrawn the said appeal with the approval of project plans proposed by the JV partner. However, the
the Honourable High Court on 7th March 2025. During the JV partner refused to progress the project and instead
year, the company recorded Total Income of ` 0.10 crore expressed its intent to exit from the JV by selling its
(previous year ` 0.10 crore) and Net loss of ` 0.09 crore stake to your Company. Subsequently, the JV partner
(previous year loss of ` 0.02 crore).
proposed that both parties should find a third party to
sell the entire shareholding in LDPL. In view of these
NOTES ON JOINT VENTURES
developments, your Company had filed a petition before
ITC Filtrona Limited (formerly known as ITC Essentra the erstwhile Company Law Board submitting that the
Limited) – a joint venture of Gold Flake Corporation
affairs of the JV entity were being conducted in a manner
Limited
that was prejudicial to the interest of your Company and
The company delivered resilient performance during the the JV entity. The matter is currently before the National
year amidst continued volatility in the supply chain for Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The JV partner had also
certain input materials. filed a petition before the Honourable Delhi High Court for
winding up the JV company, which was transferred to the
The company sustained its leadership position in the
industry consolidating its status as the preferred supply NCLT by the Honourable Delhi High Court. The matter
chain partner for several well-known national brands. was heard before the NCLT on several occasions in the
The company continues to leverage its core strengths past but could not be concluded. On 21st January, 2020,
of focused innovation, best-in-class quality, consistent the matter was assigned to a new bench, post which
delivery and strong customer relationships. hearings on the matter are being held.
The company continues to partner with its customers and In July 2022, LDPL received a communication from NOIDA
invest in technology upgradation and capability building
authorities intimating cancellation of the sub-lease for the
towards sustaining its position as the ‘innovation and
land on which the project was to be constructed on account
quality benchmark’ in the Indian cigarette filter industry.
of non-payment of lease instalments and non-fulfilment
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the company’s of the conditions of the sub-lease, including forfeiture
Revenue from Operations stood at ` 761.34 crores of the amount deposited. The company is evaluating all
(previous year ` 743.45 crores). Net Profit during the year options to pursue its rights in the matter. Consequently,
stood at ` 83.85 crores (previous year ` 80.80 crores). as a matter of prudence, the company had derecognised
The Board of Directors of the company has recommended the leasehold land/assets as well as adjusted/reversed
a dividend of ` 125 per equity share of ` 10 each the lease liabilities towards NOIDA in accordance with the
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 (previous year terms of the sub-lease deed, in its financial statements for
` 100 per equity share). the year ended 31st March 2022.
82 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025