[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 375-377

[PAGE 375]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
ITC continually invests in human capital development which includes building skills and capabilities that are contemporary
while providing employees with a diversity of experiences. These enhance the employability of the workforce and
enable a smooth transition to alternate opportunities where sought. The Company has in place a programme called
‘Making New Choices’ for retiring staff. In addition, the Company provides pension benefits and post-retiral medical
benefits for those members of staff who qualify. Workers are provided with pension benefits, as per requirements of
the relevant statute.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
ITC’s Policy on Sustainable Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing ensures integration of sustainability in its supply
chains. ITC’s suppliers /value-chain partners are expected to adopt the principles enumerated in ITC’s Code of Conduct
for Suppliers and Service Providers. ITC reserves the right to verify compliance with the Code of Conduct for Suppliers
and Service Providers at any time through appropriate audit and assessment mechanisms, including self-certification.
Health and safety audits conducted at ITC’s own manufacturing sites cover all contract workers within ITC’s operational
premises. Additionally, ITC conducts third-party desktop assessment of its Critical Tier - 1* suppliers which includes
key aspects on Occupational Health and Safety, amongst other assessment criteria.
*All ITC Businesses have identified Critical Tier-1 suppliers based on aspects like buy value, ESG risk exposure and importance
to business continuity, among others. ITC’s Sustainable Supply Chain Programme is focussed on working closely with the set
of identified critical suppliers.
% of value chain partners* (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices As of 31st March, 2025, ~70% of the Com-
pany’s Critical Tier-I suppliers have been
Working Conditions
assessed by a third party on ESG aspects
including health and safety practices and
working conditions.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
ITC’s Sectoral EHS Guidelines are shared by Businesses with their value chain partners, and periodic training is given
to their concerned personnel.
Periodic audits by ITC are conducted for some of its key value chain partners against the Sectoral EHS guidelines.
Corrective and preventive measures are recommended based on the audit findings.
Principle 4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
In line with the Board approved Policy on Stakeholder Engagement, ITC has evolved a structured framework for identifying
and engaging with its key stakeholders across the value chain. ITC’s engagement approach is anchored on the principles of
materiality, completeness and responsiveness.
The engagement approach takes into cognisance the fact that each stakeholder group is unique and has a distinctive
set of priorities. Insights gathered from stakeholder engagements, help validate the Company’s performance and shape
new perspectives.
Note: For details on ITC’s Process of Stakeholder Engagement, refer to ‘Stakeholder Engagement’ section of ITC Sustainability Report 2025.
XXVIII

[PAGE 376]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each
stakeholder group.
Stakeholder Group Whether Channels Of Frequency Of Purpose And Scope
Identified As Communication (Email, Engagement Of Engagement
Vulnerable & SMS, Newspaper, (Annually/Half Including Key Topics
Marginalized Pamphlets, Advertisement, Yearly/Quarterly/ And Concerns
Group (Yes/No) Community Meetings, Others – Please Raised During Such
Notice Board, Website), Specify) Engagement
Other
Providers of financial No For more details on consultation mechanisms and key issues discussed
capital with the stakeholder groups, refer to ‘Strengthening Relationships with
All Stakeholders’ section of ITC Sustainability Report 2025.
Government and No
regulatory authorities
Customers No
Employees No
Farmers Yes
Value chain partners No
Media No
Civil Society No
Local communities Yes
Leadership Indicators Since 2016, the Company has made concerted efforts to
assess and improve engagement. The impact is visible
1. Provide the processes for consultation between in the consistent improvement of engagement over the
stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, years.
and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is
2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support
feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
the identification and management of environmental, and
ITC believes that an effective stakeholder engagement social topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances
process is necessary for achieving its sustainability goal as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these
of inclusive growth. In this context, the Company has laid topics were incorporated into policies and activities of
down a four layered mechanism to deal with the aspect of the entity.
stakeholder engagement. Yes, the Company believes that an effective stakeholder
The Board, through the CSR and Sustainability Committee, engagement process is necessary for achieving its
inter alia, reviews, monitors and provides strategic sustainability goal of inclusive growth. Accordingly,
the Company anchors stakeholder engagement on the
direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability
following principles:
practices towards fulfilling its Triple Bottom Line
objectives. Half-yearly reports on the progress made a) Materiality – Prioritised consideration of the economic,
by the Company in this regard are placed by the CMC environmental and social impacts identified to be
before the CSR and Sustainability Committee. The CMC important to the stakeholders as well as the organisation.
in turn has constituted the Sustainability Compliance
b) Completeness – Understanding key concerns of
Review Committee (SCRC), comprising senior and other stakeholders and their expectations.
members of management, which evaluates and monitors
c) Responsiveness – Responding coherently and
compliance with the Policy formulated in this connection.
transparently to such issues and concerns. The
The SCRC places a quarterly report on the subject before
Company has put in place systems and procedures to
the CMC.
identify, prioritise and address the needs and concerns
The Company has a practice of periodically assessing of its stakeholders across Businesses and Units in a
employee engagement through a Company-wide survey. continuous, consistent and systematic manner. It has
XXIX

[PAGE 377]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
implemented mechanisms to facilitate effective dialogues and are being carefully synthesised to transform into
with all stakeholders across Businesses, identify material relevant solutions. A few key initiatives that demonstrate
concerns and their resolution in an equitable and the above are:
transparent manner. These measures have helped the
• The entire customer experience process has been
Company develop strong relationships, which have stood
incentivised for the associates, team leaders as well as
the test of time. Select examples of how stakeholder
for the Quality Analysts (QAs) in such a manner that each
inputs have been incorporated into ITC’s policies and
month they accumulate certain points for their monthly
activities are presented below:
performance based on objective and quantitative
1. Investors: The Company engages extensively with parameters. This has given the primary stakeholders
the investor ecosystem i.e., analysts representing (the associates) an opportunity to perform better. The
institutional equity investors, fund/portfolio managers in parameters include factors like ideation (KAIZEN) and
top FIIs, Domestic Mutual Funds (MFs), Foreign Portfolio initiatives taken beyond tasks to improve the process
Investors (FPIs), Private Insurance Companies etc. A continuously.
comprehensive Investor Presentation was made to the
• The scenarios related to matters like environment,
Investor community highlighting the broad contours
product, packaging, ergonomics, quality engineering, etc.
of demerger of the Company’s Hotels Business into
highlighted by the customers are answered as per the
ITC Hotels Limited, covering inter-alia overview of the
respective brand teams, and any new or unique scenario
Hotels Business, key growth strategies and financial
highlighted by the customers is shared with the respective
performance. The Company sustained the intensity
stakeholders as a VOC (Voice of Customer).
of interaction with analysts/fund managers of FPIs,
3. Community: Presented ahead are some of the
domestic MFs, Insurance cos. etc. during the year
instances where inputs received from stakeholders were
leveraging both physical and virtual meeting platforms.
incorporated into interventions.
The Company also engaged with investors with specific
focus on ESG and investor presentations on other major Social Investments team conducts a comprehensive Core
events such as acquisitions by the Company were made Area Perspective Plan (CAPP) in ITC’s catchments every
available in the public domain, through the websites of 5 years to understand the need of the communities and
the Company and the Stock Exchanges. The Company design the interventions basis that. Participatory Rural
continues to communicate quarterly performance Appraisal, Focused Group Discussions (separately with
takeaways through press releases and detailed Investor men, women and vulnerable groups), key informant
presentations along with providing clarifications to interviews and household surveys are done to ascertain
analysts and others on such financial results. Key the needs of the community and prioritise the intervention
highlights of quarterly performance are also being areas under CAPP. CAPP 1.0 was developed and first done
shared with the shareholders by e-mail. The ‘Investor in 2015-16 and subsequently, CAPP 2.0 in 2021-22 which
Relations’ section of the Company’s website is also being was across 21 factories and 7 agri locations.
updated on an ongoing basis. The Company is well-
In addition to CAPP every five years, sample household
recognised for its ESG credentials, and is acknowledged
surveys are conducted annually to re-assess and reaffirm
as one of the pioneers of adopting the Triple Bottom Line
the continued relevance of the needs identified and also
philosophy in India.
cognise for any operational changes that may be needed
2. Customers & Value Chain Partners: Customers, in the future plans. In FY 2024-25, over 3,000 households
Consumers and Value Chain Partners are some of ITC’s were surveyed. The survey was done engaging a mixed-
core stakeholders. Various tech-enabled avenues have method approach to collect both quantitative and
been deployed to constantly receive feedback and ideas qualitative data through structured questionnaires
from these stakeholders. administered to households. Qualitative data was
gathered through Participatory Rural Appraisals (PRA),
A specialised team, ‘Team Synthesis’, has progressively
Focused Group Discussions (FGDs) with Gram Panchayat
evolved from being a ‘Customer Interactions’ team to a
members, and community members with representation
‘Customer Experience’ team to ‘Stakeholder Experience
also of marginalised groups and women members.
Team’, and now into a ‘Stakeholder Experience
Management Team’. In its current avatar, in addition Forming large-scale long-term partnerships with
to keeping customer centricity as the base, SOPs Government to amplify reach & scale is one of the
and policies are designed and implemented in such a core tenets of SIP’s implementation approach. These
manner that the experience of all stakeholders is taken partnerships not only ensure that the Government
into equitable consideration. This has not just helped in programmes reach the community, but also enable
achieving better experience for customers as well as cognisance and incorporation of the community
the employees, but has also made every stakeholder perspective basis feedback received through
accountable for the team’s and the organisation’s growth. consultations and interactions. During the year, new PPPs
Rapidly evolving consumer needs are constantly being with Government and others were initiated incorporating
monitored through social listening, in-depth immersions insights from experiences in earlier phases of partnership
XXX