[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 231-233

[PAGE 231]
Independent Auditor’s Report
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate Ind AS financial statements for the financial year ended
to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not March 31, 2025 and are therefore the key audit matters.
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless
is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. determine that a matter should not be communicated in
our report because the adverse consequences of doing
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
interest benefits of such communication.
appropriate in the circumstances. Under section 143(3)(i)
of the Act, we are also responsible for expressing Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
our opinion on whether the Company has adequate 1. As required by the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order,
internal financial controls with reference to financial 2020 (“the Order”), issued by the Central Government
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of of India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of
such controls. the Act, we give in the “Annexure 1” a statement on the
matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies
used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 2. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to
and related disclosures made by management. the extent applicable, that:
• Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use (a) We have sought and obtained all the information
of the going concern basis of accounting and, based and explanations which to the best of our knowledge
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material and belief were necessary for the purposes of our
uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that audit;
may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability
(b) In our opinion, proper books of account as required
to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that by law have been kept by the Company so far as it
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to appears from our examination of those books;
draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related
(c) The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit
disclosures in the financial statements or, if such
and Loss including the Statement of Other
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Cash
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained
Flows and Statement of Changes in Equity dealt
up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future
with by this Report are in agreement with the books
events or conditions may cause the Company to cease
of account;
to continue as a going concern.
(d) In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone Ind AS
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and
financial statements comply with the Accounting
content of the standalone Ind AS financial statements,
Standards specified under Section 133 of the
including the disclosures, and whether the standalone
Act, read with Companies (Indian Accounting
Ind AS financial statements represent the underlying
Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended;
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
(e) On the basis of the written representations received
presentation.
from the directors as on March 31, 2025 taken
We communicate with those charged with governance
on record by the Board of Directors, none of the
regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
directors is disqualified as on March 31, 2025 from
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including being appointed as a director in terms of Section
any significant deficiencies in internal control that we 164 (2) of the Act;
identify during our audit.
(f) With respect to the adequacy of the internal
We also provide those charged with governance financial controls with reference to these standalone
with a statement that we have complied with relevant Ind AS financial statements and the operating
ethical requirements regarding independence, and effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate
to communicate with them all relationships and other Report in “Annexure 2” to this report;
matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our
(g) In our opinion, the managerial remuneration for the
independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
year ended March 31, 2025 has been paid / provided
From the matters communicated with those charged by the Company to its directors in accordance with
with governance, we determine those matters that the provisions of section 197 read with Schedule V
were of most significance in the audit of the standalone to the Act;
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 213

[PAGE 232]
Independent Auditor’s Report
(h) With respect to the other matters to be included in whether, directly or indirectly, lend or invest
the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of in other persons or entities identified in any
the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the
as amended in our opinion and to the best of our Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or
information and according to the explanations provide any guarantee, security or the like
given to us: on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries; and
i. The Company has disclosed the impact of c) Based on such audit procedures performed
pending litigations on its financial position in its that have been considered reasonable and
standalone Ind AS financial statements – Refer appropriate in the circumstances, nothing
Note 29(vi)(a) to the standalone Ind AS financial has come to our notice that has caused us
statements; to believe that the representations under
sub-clause (a) and (b) contain any material
ii. The Company did not have any long-term
misstatement.
contracts including derivative contracts for
v. The final dividend paid by the Company during
which there were any material foreseeable
the year in respect of the same declared for the
losses;
previous year is in accordance with section 123
iii. There has been no delay in transferring
of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of
amounts, required to be transferred, to the
dividend.
Investor Education and Protection Fund by the
The interim dividend declared and paid by the
Company;
Company during the year and until the date of
iv. a) The management has represented that, this audit report is in accordance with section
to the best of its knowledge and belief, no 123 of the Act.
funds have been advanced or loaned or
As stated in Note B of Statement of Changes
invested (either from borrowed funds or
in Equity to the standalone Ind AS financial
share premium or any other sources or kind
statements, the Board of Directors of the
of funds) by the Company to or in any other
Company have proposed final dividend for
person or entity, including foreign entities
the year which is subject to the approval of
(“Intermediaries”), with the understanding,
the members at the ensuing Annual General
whether recorded in writing or otherwise,
Meeting. The dividend declared is in accordance
that the Intermediary shall, whether, directly
with section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies
or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or
to declaration of dividend.
entities identified in any manner whatsoever
vi. Based on our examination which included test
by or on behalf of the Company (“Ultimate
checks, the Company has used accounting
Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee,
softwares for maintaining its books of account
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate
which has a feature of recording audit trail
Beneficiaries;
(edit log) facility and the same has operated
b) The management has represented that, throughout the year for all relevant transactions
to the best of its knowledge and belief, no recorded in the softwares. Further, during the
funds have been received by the Company course of our audit we did not come across any
from any person or entity, including foreign instance of audit trail feature being tampered
entities (“Funding Parties”), with the with. Additionally, the audit trail has been
understanding, whether recorded in writing preserved by the Company as per the statutory
or otherwise, that the Company shall, requirements for record retention.
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E / E300003
per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
Place of Signature: Kolkata
Date: May 22, 2025 UDIN: 25089802BMNPUK4099
214 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 233]
Annexure 1
referred to in paragraph 1 under the heading “Report
on Other legal and Regulatory Requirements” of our report of even date
Re: ITC Limited (the “Company”)
In terms of the information and explanations sought by us and given by the Company and the books of account and records
examined by us in the normal course of audit and to the best of our knowledge and belief, we state that:
(i) (a) (A) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars, including quantitative details and situation
of Property, Plant and Equipment.
(B) The Company has maintained proper records showing full particulars of Intangible assets.
(b) The Property, Plant and Equipment were physically verified during the year by the management in accordance
with a regular programme of verification which, in our opinion, provides for physical verification of all the property,
plant and equipment at reasonable intervals. According to the information and explanations given to us, no material
discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
(c) According to the information and explanations given by the management, the title deeds of all the immovable
properties (other than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in
favour of the lessee) are held in the name of the Company.
(d) The Company has not revalued its Property, Plant and Equipment (including Right-of-use assets) or Intangible
assets during the year ended March 31, 2025.
(e) There are no proceedings initiated or are pending against the Company for holding any benami property under the
Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act, 1988 and rules made thereunder.
(ii) (a) The inventories have been physically verified by the management during the year. In our opinion, the frequency of
verification by the management is reasonable and the coverage and procedure for such verification is appropriate.
Inventories lying with third parties have substantially been confirmed by them as at year end. No discrepancies of
10% or more in aggregate for each class of inventory (including inventories lying with third parties) were noticed.
(b) As disclosed in note 8 to the standalone Ind AS financial statements, the Company has been sanctioned working
capital limits in excess of ` 5 crores in aggregate from banks during the year on the basis of security of inventories
of the Company. Based on the records examined by us in the normal course of audit of the financial statements,
the quarterly returns /statements filed by the Company with such banks are in agreement with the books of accounts
of the Company.
(iii) (a) During the year the Company has not provided loans, advances in the nature of loans, stood guarantee or provided
security to companies, firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties. Accordingly, the requirement to
report on clause 3(iii)(a) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(b) During the year the investments made by the Company is not prejudicial to the Company’s interest. The Company
has not provided guarantees or security and has not granted loans and advances in the nature of loans to companies,
firms, Limited Liability Partnerships or any other parties and hence not commented upon.
(c) The Company has not granted loans and advances in the nature of loans to companies, firms, Limited Liability
Partnerships or any other parties. Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(iii)(c) to 3(iii)(f) of the Order is
not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
(iv) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, provisions of section 185 and 186 of the
Companies Act, 2013 in respect of loans to directors including entities in which they are interested and in respect of
loans and advances given, investments made and guarantees and securities given have been complied with by the
Company.
(v) According to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not accepted any deposit from the public
nor accepted any amounts which are deemed to be deposits during the year within the meaning of Sections 73 and
76 of the Companies Act, 2013. In respect of unclaimed deposits, the Company has complied with the provisions of
Sections 74 and 75 or any other relevant provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. We are informed by the management
that no order has been passed by the Company Law Board, National Company Law Tribunal or Reserve Bank of India
or any Court or any other Tribunal.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 215