[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 262-264

[PAGE 262]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
The Group makes contribution to defined contribution quantum of reimbursement is not material - the materiality
pension plan. The contribution payable is recognised as an threshold being ` 5 Crores for each entity for a financial year.
expense, when an employee renders the related service.
Stock Appreciation Linked Reward (SAR) Plan
The Group also makes contribution to defined benefit
Cash Settled SAR units are granted to eligible employees
pension and gratuity plan. The cost of providing benefits
under the ITC Employee Cash Settled Stock Appreciation
under the defined benefit obligation is calculated by
Linked Reward Plan (‘ITC ESARP’) , as may be decided by
independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
the CMC / Nomination & Compensation Committee / Board.
Service costs and net interest expense or income is
For such cash settled SAR units, a liability is initially
reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss. Gain or Loss
measured at fair value on the grant date and is subsequently
on account of remeasurements are recognised immediately
remeasured at each reporting period, until settled. The
through other comprehensive income in the period in which
fair value of ITC ESARP units granted is recognised as
they occur.
employee benefits expense in the Statement of Profit and
The employees of the Group are entitled to compensated
Loss over the period in which the performance and / or
leave for which the Group records the liability based on
service conditions are fulfilled for employees of the Group.
actuarial valuation computed using projected unit credit
In case of ITC ESARP units granted to employees on
method. These benefits are unfunded.
deputation and to employees of the group companies, the
Actual disbursements made under the Workers’ Voluntary Group generally recovers the fair value of ITC ESARP units
Retirement Scheme are accounted as revenue expenses. from the concerned group companies.
Employee Share Based Compensation Stock options granted by a subsidiary
The Board of Directors of a subsidiary have approved an
Stock Options
Equity Based Long Term Incentive Plan for certain eligible
Equity settled Stock Options are granted to eligible
employees of the Group under the ITC Infotech India Limited
employees under the ITC Employee Stock Option
Employee Stock Option Plan 2024. The eligible employees
Schemes (‘ITC ESOS’), as may be decided by the
for this purpose shall be such permanent employees, as
Nomination & Compensation Committee / Board. Further,
may be determined by the Nomination and Remuneration
eligible employees of the Company have been granted
Committee (NRC) of the subsidiary.
equity settled Stock Options under the ITC Hotels Special
These Options have been recognised as cash-settled
Purpose Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘ITCHL SP
options and accordingly, a liability is initially measured at
ESOS’), in terms of the ‘Scheme of Arrangement between
fair value on the grant date and is subsequently remeasured
the Company and ITC Hotels Limited, and their respective
at each reporting period, until settled. The fair value of the
shareholders and creditors’.
Options granted is recognised in the Statement of Profit
Under Ind AS, the cost of equity-settled Stock Options is
and Loss over the period in which the performance and / or
recognised based on the fair value of Stock Options as on
service conditions are fulfilled for employees of the Group.
the grant date.
Leases
The fair values of Stock Options granted to the employees
The Group assesses at contract inception whether a
of the Group is recognised as employee benefits expense in
contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a
the Statement of Profit and Loss over the period in which the
lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified
performance and / or service conditions are fulfilled with a
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
corresponding credit in equity for ITC ESOS and recognized
as a financial liability for ITCHL SP ESOS. The fair value Group as a Lessee
of Stock Options, net of recoveries, granted to employees
Right-of-Use (ROU) assets are recognised at inception of
on deputation and to employees of the group companies is
a contract or arrangement for significant lease components
considered as capital contribution / investment.
at cost less lease incentives, if any. ROU assets are
The Group generally recovers the fair value of Stock subsequently measured at cost less accumulated
Options from such group companies, as applicable. It may, depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. The
if recommended by the Corporate Management Committee cost of ROU assets includes the amount of lease liabilities
and approved by the Audit Committee, decide not to seek recognised, initial direct cost incurred and lease payments
such recovery in respect of value of Stock Options from made at or before the lease commencement date. ROU
such companies, who need to conserve financial capacity assets are generally depreciated over the shorter of the
to sustain their business and growth plans and where the lease term and estimated useful lives of the underlying assets
244 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 263]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
on a straight-line basis. Lease term is determined based Income tax, insofar as it relates to items disclosed under
on consideration of facts and circumstances that create an other comprehensive income or equity, is disclosed
economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not to separately under other comprehensive income or equity,
exercise a termination option. Lease payments associated as applicable.
with short-term leases (i.e., those leases that have a lease
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is
term of 12 months or less from the commencement date
legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and
and do not contain a purchase option) and low value leases
liabilities and when the deferred tax balances relate to the
(i.e., where the value of the underlying asset, when new, in
same taxation authority. Current tax assets and tax liabilities
order of magnitude is ` 5 lakhs or less) are charged to the
are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to
Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over the
offset and intends either to settle on net basis, or to realise
term of the relevant lease.
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The Group recognises lease liabilities measured at the
Claims
present value of lease payments to be made on the date
of recognition of the lease. Such lease liabilities do not Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts are
include variable lease payments (that do not depend on an disclosed after a careful evaluation of the facts and legal
index or a rate), which are recognised as expense in the aspects of the matter involved.
periods in which they are incurred. Interest on lease liability
Provisions
is recognised using the effective interest method. Lease
liabilities are subsequently increased to reflect the accretion Provisions are recognised when, as a result of a past
of interest and reduced for the lease payments made. The event, the Group has a legal or constructive obligation; it
carrying amount of lease liabilities is also remeasured is probable that an outflow of resources will be required
upon modification of lease arrangement or upon change to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably
in the assessment of the lease term. The effect of such estimated. The amount so recognised is a best estimate
remeasurements is adjusted to the value of the ROU assets. of the consideration required to settle the obligation at the
reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties
Group as a Lessor
surrounding the obligation.
Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially
In an event when the time value of money is material, the
all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset are
provision is carried at the present value of the cash flows
classified as operating leases. Where the Group is a lessor
estimated to settle the obligation.
under an operating lease, the asset is capitalised within
property, plant and equipment or investment property Operating Segments
and depreciated over its useful economic life. Payments Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent
received under operating leases are recognised in the with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating
Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis over decision-maker (CODM). The CODM, who is responsible
the term of the lease.
for allocating resources and assessing performance of the
Taxes on Income operating segments, has been identified as the Corporate
Management Committee.
Taxes on income comprise current taxes and deferred
taxes. Current tax in the Statement of Profit and Loss is Segments are organised based on businesses which
provided as the amount of tax payable in respect of taxable have similar economic characteristics as well as exhibit
income for the period using tax rates and tax laws enacted similarities in nature of products and services offered,
during the period, together with any adjustment to tax the nature of production processes, the type and class of
payable in respect of previous years. customer and distribution methods.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences Segment revenue arising from third party customers is
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and reported on the same basis as revenue in the financial
the amounts used for taxation purposes (tax base), at the statements. Inter-segment revenue is reported on the basis
tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively enacted by of transactions which are primarily market led. Segment
the end of the reporting period. results represent profits before finance charges, unallocated
Deferred tax assets are recognised for the future tax corporate expenses and taxes.
consequences to the extent it is probable that future “Unallocated Corporate Expenses” include revenue and
taxable profits will be available against which the deductible expenses that relate to initiatives / costs attributable to the
temporary differences can be utilised. Group as a whole.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 245

[PAGE 264]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
2. Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity variability of its return has concluded that it does not
with generally accepted accounting principles requires ‘control’ these trusts.
management to make estimates and assumptions that 2. Significant influence:
affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities
The Group assessed whether or not it has significant
and disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the
influence on its investees based on its practical ability to
financial statements and the results of operations during
participate in the financial and operating policy decisions
the reporting period end. Although these estimates are
of the investee, though it is not in control or in joint
based upon management’s best knowledge of current
control of these policies. Based on such assessment,
events and actions, actual results could differ from these
the Group determined that the entities listed in the
estimates.
notes to the financial statements are the only entities
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on over which the Group has significant influence, and
an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are accordingly recognised as associates.
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised
3. Joint Control:
if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of
(i) The Group holds 27.90% of the equity share capital
the revision and future periods if the revision affects both
of Logix Developers Private Limited, a company
current and future periods.
intended for the purpose of developing a luxury
A. Judgements in applying accounting policies hotel-cum-service apartment complex. The Group
The following are the judgements, apart from those involving has concluded that the key decisions about relevant
estimations (see note B below), that the Group have made activities of such company are made jointly between
in the process of applying the accounting policies and that the Group and the co-venturer (who holds 72.10% of
have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the the equity share capital) and both the parties have
consolidated financial statements: rights to the net assets of such arrangement.
1. Control: (ii) The Group holds 50% of the equity share capital
The Group assessed whether or not it has control on its of ITC Filtrona Limited, a company involved in
investees based on whether, as an investor, it has the manufacture and sale of filter rods. The Group has
power / rights and consequently the practical ability to concluded that the key decisions about relevant
direct the relevant activities of its investees unilaterally. activities of such company are made jointly between
In making this judgement, the Group considered the the Group and the co-venturer (who holds 50% of
absolute size of its holding, the relative size of and the equity share capital) and both the parties have
dispersion of other shareholders, and whether any rights to the net assets of such arrangement.
contractual arrangements exist between the Company 4. Useful life of Intangible Assets:
(and its subsidiaries) and other shareholders of the The Group is required to determine whether its
investees. Based on this, and in accordance with its intangible assets have indefinite or finite life which is a
Accounting Policy, the Group has determined that the subject matter of judgement. Certain trademarks have
entities listed in the notes to the financial statements are been considered of having an indefinite useful life taking
the only entities over which Group has control. into account that there are no technical, technological or
The Company is a settlor for certain trusts, i.e., ITC commercial risks of obsolescence or limitations under
Sangeet Research Academy, ITC Education and Health contract or law. Other trademarks have been amortised
Care Trust and ITC Rural Development Trust. The over their useful economic life. Refer notes to the
Group while considering the nature and insignificant financial statements.
246 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025