[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 260-262

[PAGE 260]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
at that time remain in equity and is reclassified when the value, with unrealised gains and losses arising from
underlying transaction is ultimately recognised. When changes in the fair value being recognised in other
an underlying transaction is no longer expected to occur, comprehensive income.
the gains / losses accumulated in equity are recognised
(c) fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), where the
immediately in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
assets are managed in accordance with an approved
Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures investment strategy that triggers purchase and sale
decisions based on the fair value of such assets.
Investment in associates and joint ventures are accounted
Such assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
for using the ‘equity method’ less accumulated impairment,
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in
if any.
the fair value, including interest income and dividend
Financial instruments, Financial assets, Financial income, if any, are recognised in the Statement of
liabilities and Equity instruments Profit and Loss in the period in which they arise.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when Trade receivables, Advances, Security deposits, Cash
the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of and cash equivalents etc. are classified for measurement
the relevant instrument and are initially measured at fair at amortised cost while investments may fall under any of
value except for trade receivables that do not contain a the aforesaid classes. However, in respect of particular
significant financing component, which are measured at investments in equity instruments that would otherwise
transaction price.
be measured at fair value through profit or loss, an
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the irrevocable election at initial recognition may be made to
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities present subsequent changes in fair value through other
(other than financial assets and financial liabilities measured comprehensive income.
at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted
Impairment: The Group assesses at each reporting date
from the fair value on initial recognition of financial assets or
whether a financial asset (or a group of financial assets)
financial liabilities. Purchase or sale of financial assets that
such as Investments, Trade receivables, Advances and
require delivery of assets within a time frame established by
Security deposits held at amortised cost and financial
regulation or convention in the market place (regular way
assets that are measured at fair value through other
trades) are recognised on the trade date, i.e., the date when
comprehensive income are tested for impairment based
the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
on evidence or information that is available without undue
Financial Assets cost or effort. Expected credit losses are assessed and loss
allowances recognised if the credit quality of the financial
Recognition: Financial assets include Investments, Trade
asset has deteriorated significantly since initial recognition.
receivables, Advances, Security deposits, Cash and cash
equivalents. Such assets are initially recognised at fair Reclassification: When and only when the business
value or transaction price, as applicable, when the Group model is changed, the Group shall reclassify all affected
becomes party to contractual obligations. The transaction financial assets prospectively from the reclassification date
price includes transaction costs unless the asset is being as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value
fair valued through the Statement of Profit and Loss. through other comprehensive income or fair value through
Classification: Management determines the classification profit or loss without restating the previously recognised
of an asset at initial recognition depending on the purpose gains, losses or interest and in terms of the reclassification
for which the assets were acquired. The subsequent principles laid down in the Ind AS relating to Financial
measurement of financial assets depends on such Instruments.
classification. Derecognition: Financial assets are derecognised when
Financial assets are classified as those measured at: the right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired,
or has been transferred, and the Group has transferred
(a) amortised cost, where the financial assets are held
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
solely for collection of cash flows arising from payments
Concomitantly, if the asset is one that is measured at:
of principal and / or interest.
(a) amortised cost, the gain or loss is recognised in the
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income
Statement of Profit and Loss;
(FVTOCI), where the financial assets are held not only
for collection of cash flows arising from payments of (b) fair value through other comprehensive income, the
principal and interest but also from the sale of such cumulative fair value adjustments previously taken to
assets. Such assets are subsequently measured at fair reserves are reclassified to the Statement of Profit and
242 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 261]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Loss unless the asset represents an equity investment, Government Grant
in which case the cumulative fair value adjustments Group entities may receive government grants that require
previously taken to reserves are reclassified within compliance with certain conditions related to the entity’s
equity. operating activities or are provided to the entity by way
Income Recognition: Interest income is recognised in the of financial assistance on the basis of certain qualifying
Statement of Profit and Loss using the effective interest criteria.
method. Dividend income is recognised in the Statement Government grants are recognised when there is
of Profit and Loss when the right to receive dividend is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received upon
established. the Group entity complying with the conditions attached to
the grant. Accordingly, government grants:
Financial Liabilities
(a) related to or used for assets, are deducted from the
Borrowings, trade payables and other financial liabilities
carrying amount of the asset.
are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently
measured at amortised cost. Any discount or premium on (b) related to incurring specific expenditures are taken to
redemption / settlement is recognised in the Statement of the Statement of Profit and Loss on the same basis and
Profit and Loss as finance cost over the life of the liability in the same periods as the expenditures incurred.
using the effective interest method and adjusted to the (c) by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain
liability figure disclosed in the Balance Sheet. qualifying criteria are recognised in the Statement of
Profit and Loss as they become receivable.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is
extinguished, that is, when the contractual obligation is In the unlikely event that a grant previously recognised is
discharged, cancelled or on expiry. ultimately not received, it is treated as a change in estimate
and the amount cumulatively recognised is expensed in the
Offsetting Financial Instruments
Statement of Profit and Loss.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount
Dividend Distribution
is included in the Balance Sheet where there is a legally
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and Dividends paid (including income tax thereon, if any) are
there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the recognised in the period in which the interim dividends are
asset and settle the liability simultaneously. approved by the Board of Directors, or in respect of the final
dividend when approved by the shareholders.
Equity Instruments
Employee Benefits
Equity instruments are recognised at the value of the
proceeds, net of direct costs of the capital issue. Short-term employee benefits are expensed in the period
in which the employee renders the related service on an
Revenue
undiscounted basis. A liability is recognised for the amount
Revenue is measured at the transaction price that the expected to be paid within twelve months, if the Company
Company receives or expects to receive as consideration has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay the
for goods supplied and services rendered, net of returns same as a result of past service provided by the employee
and estimates of variable consideration such as discounts and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
to customers. Revenue from the sale of goods includes The Group makes contributions to both defined benefit
Excise Duties and National Calamity Contingent Duty and defined contribution schemes which are mainly
which are payable on manufacture of goods but excludes administered through duly constituted and approved Trusts.
taxes such as VAT and Goods and Services Tax which are
Provident Fund contributions are in the nature of defined
payable in respect of sale of goods and services.
contribution scheme. In respect of employees who are
Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised members of constituted and approved trusts, the Group
when the Group performs its obligations to its customers recognises contribution payable to such trusts as an expense
and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably including any shortfall in interest between the amount of
and recovery of the consideration is probable. The timing interest realised by the investment and the interest payable
of such recognition in case of sale of goods is when the to members at the rate declared by the Government of
control over the same is transferred to the customer, which India. In respect of other employees, provident funds are
is mainly upon delivery and in case of services, in the period deposited with the Government administered funds and
in which such services are rendered. recognised as expense.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 243

[PAGE 262]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
The Group makes contribution to defined contribution quantum of reimbursement is not material - the materiality
pension plan. The contribution payable is recognised as an threshold being ` 5 Crores for each entity for a financial year.
expense, when an employee renders the related service.
Stock Appreciation Linked Reward (SAR) Plan
The Group also makes contribution to defined benefit
Cash Settled SAR units are granted to eligible employees
pension and gratuity plan. The cost of providing benefits
under the ITC Employee Cash Settled Stock Appreciation
under the defined benefit obligation is calculated by
Linked Reward Plan (‘ITC ESARP’) , as may be decided by
independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
the CMC / Nomination & Compensation Committee / Board.
Service costs and net interest expense or income is
For such cash settled SAR units, a liability is initially
reflected in the Statement of Profit and Loss. Gain or Loss
measured at fair value on the grant date and is subsequently
on account of remeasurements are recognised immediately
remeasured at each reporting period, until settled. The
through other comprehensive income in the period in which
fair value of ITC ESARP units granted is recognised as
they occur.
employee benefits expense in the Statement of Profit and
The employees of the Group are entitled to compensated
Loss over the period in which the performance and / or
leave for which the Group records the liability based on
service conditions are fulfilled for employees of the Group.
actuarial valuation computed using projected unit credit
In case of ITC ESARP units granted to employees on
method. These benefits are unfunded.
deputation and to employees of the group companies, the
Actual disbursements made under the Workers’ Voluntary Group generally recovers the fair value of ITC ESARP units
Retirement Scheme are accounted as revenue expenses. from the concerned group companies.
Employee Share Based Compensation Stock options granted by a subsidiary
The Board of Directors of a subsidiary have approved an
Stock Options
Equity Based Long Term Incentive Plan for certain eligible
Equity settled Stock Options are granted to eligible
employees of the Group under the ITC Infotech India Limited
employees under the ITC Employee Stock Option
Employee Stock Option Plan 2024. The eligible employees
Schemes (‘ITC ESOS’), as may be decided by the
for this purpose shall be such permanent employees, as
Nomination & Compensation Committee / Board. Further,
may be determined by the Nomination and Remuneration
eligible employees of the Company have been granted
Committee (NRC) of the subsidiary.
equity settled Stock Options under the ITC Hotels Special
These Options have been recognised as cash-settled
Purpose Employee Stock Option Scheme (‘ITCHL SP
options and accordingly, a liability is initially measured at
ESOS’), in terms of the ‘Scheme of Arrangement between
fair value on the grant date and is subsequently remeasured
the Company and ITC Hotels Limited, and their respective
at each reporting period, until settled. The fair value of the
shareholders and creditors’.
Options granted is recognised in the Statement of Profit
Under Ind AS, the cost of equity-settled Stock Options is
and Loss over the period in which the performance and / or
recognised based on the fair value of Stock Options as on
service conditions are fulfilled for employees of the Group.
the grant date.
Leases
The fair values of Stock Options granted to the employees
The Group assesses at contract inception whether a
of the Group is recognised as employee benefits expense in
contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a
the Statement of Profit and Loss over the period in which the
lease if it conveys the right to control the use of an identified
performance and / or service conditions are fulfilled with a
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
corresponding credit in equity for ITC ESOS and recognized
as a financial liability for ITCHL SP ESOS. The fair value Group as a Lessee
of Stock Options, net of recoveries, granted to employees
Right-of-Use (ROU) assets are recognised at inception of
on deputation and to employees of the group companies is
a contract or arrangement for significant lease components
considered as capital contribution / investment.
at cost less lease incentives, if any. ROU assets are
The Group generally recovers the fair value of Stock subsequently measured at cost less accumulated
Options from such group companies, as applicable. It may, depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if any. The
if recommended by the Corporate Management Committee cost of ROU assets includes the amount of lease liabilities
and approved by the Audit Committee, decide not to seek recognised, initial direct cost incurred and lease payments
such recovery in respect of value of Stock Options from made at or before the lease commencement date. ROU
such companies, who need to conserve financial capacity assets are generally depreciated over the shorter of the
to sustain their business and growth plans and where the lease term and estimated useful lives of the underlying assets
244 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025