[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 124-126

[PAGE 124]
Report of the Board of Directors
components. Programme is aligned to Government of wood security. To create an additional income source
India’s National Livestock Mission (NLM). The programme and improve resilience towards climate change, fruit
covered livelihoods linked to large ruminants (cow & buffalo), and other commercial species tree plantations have also
small ruminants (goat & sheep), piggery, fishery, poultry been initiated with farmers, which have covered over
and apiary in 16 states and 42 districts. During the 40,000 acres till date.
year, about 1.34 lakh artificial inseminations (AIs) were
Together with your Company’s Farm Forestry programme,
carried out which led to the birth of over 0.47 lakh high
this initiative has covered around 13.2 lakh acres till date
yielding progeny and indigenous breeds. Cumulatively,
and generated over 240 million-person days of livelihood
the figures for AIs and calving stand at over 30.90 lakhs
for rural households, including women, poor tribal and
and 10.90 lakhs respectively. Under the programme,
marginal farmers. Further, fast growing, high yielding
1,870 women trained as ‘Pashu Sakhis’ have provided
and disease resistant hybrid clones and saplings of
extension services to animal owners of the villages.
eucalyptus pulpwood developed by your Company
Your Company is also working with dairy farmers in Bihar, deliver significantly higher productivity vis-a-vis earlier
Jharkhand and West Bengal to improve productivity of clones. The clones have been developed to grow under
animals through several extension services and to facilitate varying ecological conditions, thereby building resilience
higher milk production. Qualified teams comprising and contributing towards increasing income for the
veterinarians and para-veterinarians have been deployed farming community.
to facilitate animal nutrition, animal health services, training
Besides enhancing farm level employment, generating
and capacity building towards improving productivity,
incomes and increasing green cover, these large-scale
clean milk production and promoting commercial
initiatives also contribute meaningfully to the nation’s
dairy farming among farmers. During the year, about
endeavour to create additional carbon sinks for tackling
38,000 animals of over 19,000 dairy farmers across
climate change.
416 villages in nine districts of Bihar, three districts of
In addition to the above, the Social and Farm Forestry
West Bengal and two districts in Jharkhand were supported
initiative of your Company, through a multiplier effect, has
through cattle feed distribution, training programmes on
led to improvement in pulpwood and fuelwood availability
clean milk production, mastitis control and animal husbandry
in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Odisha.
services like deworming, ectoparasite control, etc.
Women Empowerment
On-farm Livelihood Diversification – Tree plantations
During the year, this initiative in catchment geographies
Your Company’s pioneering initiative through the
provided a range of gainful livelihood opportunities to
Social Forestry programme covered over 37,300 acres
over 2.67 lakh poor women, taking the cumulative coverage
during the year. The said programme is also aligned
to over 4.51 lakhs through livelihood interventions for
to Government of India’s National Afforestation
Self Help Groups (SHGs), women in agriculture and allied
Programme objectives. It is currently spread across
services, cadre of service providers in the community
16 districts in six states cumulatively covering
and ultra-poor women. This initiative is also aligned to
5.28 lakh acres in over 7,400 villages and 1.90 lakh poor
National Rural Livelihoods Mission’s objective of
households. Integral to the Social Forestry programme
empowering and creating Lakhpati Didis.
are the Agro-Forestry and Bund plantation models
that help small and marginal farmers to cultivate field Targeting Hardcore Poor programme focusing on
crops and trees together in the same field and realise empowering ultra-poor women through mentoring,
benefits of both annual income from crops and lumpsum skilling to run enterprises and asset support for the same
income from trees once in four years. These two models has covered about 40,680 women in your Company’s
cumulatively extended to over 2.68 lakh acres (part of core catchments through a two-year graduation
total Social Forestry area) and enabled food, fodder and intervention. Studies have shown that the income of these
106 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 125]
Report of the Board of Directors
ultra-poor women has increased by more than five-fold. building capabilities of Anganwadi Sevikas on ECCE has
Aided by the programme, there is also a substantial also been one of the focus areas. Your Company has
improvement in Human Development Indicators. partnered with Women Development and Child Welfare
Currently, the programme is operational in 10 districts in Department in Andhra Pradesh to strengthen capacity of
eight states. over 55,600 Anganwadi Sevikas across all the 26 districts.
Through a cascade approach, the Sevikas have reached
As an amplification strategy, the financial literacy and
out to 4.16 lakh children during the year. Your Company
inclusion project, in partnership with Madhya Pradesh
is also having a similar partnership in Saharanpur,
State Rural Livelihood Mission (MPSRLM) and
Uttar Pradesh, for improving ECCE (Poshan Bhi,
CRISIL Foundation continued in its second phase of
Padhai Bhi) of children by combining nutrition and
partnership covering all 52 districts of Madhya Pradesh.
education interventions and has covered 50,000 children
Basis the learnings in MP, the programme continued
in the district.
to expand to other states also, now covering over
98,900 existing SHGs with 10 lakh members. Over 640 Government primary schools and Anganwadis
The Financial Literacy programme has cumulatively covered were provided infrastructure support comprising
over 3.9 lakh SHGs benefiting over 38.50 lakh women boundary walls, additional classrooms including
spread across 80 districts in 15 states. Over 31 lakh scheme operationalising smart classrooms, solarisation,
linkages for trained women have also been facilitated with sanitation units and furniture, taking the total number
access to bank accounts and Government social security of Government primary schools and Anganwadis
schemes till date with the support of self-sustaining cadre of covered till date to over 4,100. Infrastructure support to
Yojana Sakhis, who also earn by charging fees from women Government schools has helped in increasing enrolment,
for creating these linkages. particularly of girls, in schools. To ensure sustainable
operations and maintenance of infrastructure provided,
Your Company’s ‘Aashirvaad Raho 4 Kadam Aage’
more than 1,480 School Management Committees and
programme is encouraging women empowerment by
1,370 Child Cabinets & Water and Sanitation (WATSAN)
providing skills related to food processing sector as
Committees were operational in various schools
well as on other livelihood opportunities. Spread across
during the year with active involvement of students
four states, the programme has covered over
and teachers.
30,700 women beneficiaries.
To address the issue of drop out, especially of girls in
Education
secondary and senior secondary level, a pilot intervention
The Primary Education programme aligned with National continued in Pudukkottai, Munger and Kolkata covering
Education Policy 2020, aims to provide children from 2,500 girl students. Mentoring for career intentionality,
weaker sections of society access to education with building 21st century skilling and mainstreaming out of
focus on learning outcomes and retention. Operational school girls through National Open Schooling System
in 50 districts of 15 states, the programme covered are the major aspects of this intervention.
over 6.57 lakh children during the year, taking the
Your Company’s ‘Bounce of Joy’ programme is aimed to
cumulative coverage to over 21.80 lakh children. Further,
foster holistic development and create a positive impact on
125 Supplementary Learning Centres (SLCs) has
children’s lives through physical fitness including sports.
remained operational during the year, mainstreaming
Execution of the programme is done by collaborating with
more than 4,000 out-of-school children into the formal
schools for training of Physical Education (PE) teachers to
education system, taking the cumulative number to
help them foster holistic development amongst students
over 16,800.
through sports like football. Through the trained teachers,
Considering importance of Early Childhood Care and the programme has reached out to 43,450 students across
Education (ECCE) as per National Education Policy 2020, 140 schools in two states.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 107

[PAGE 126]
Report of the Board of Directors
Your Company’s ‘Sunfeast Bigger Fantasies’ programme boys, and also focused on driving behaviour change
has covered 55,970 children from 60 schools across two among over 1.13 lakh school students through
states encouraging and nurturing their innate curiosity 2,300 WASH campaigns.
and ability to think laterally. 1,500 Young instructors
Your Company’s ‘Savlon Swasth India Mission’
were trained, who in turn engaged with these children
programme has been a front runner in driving behavioural
to encourage creative thinking & expression, and peer
change in hand hygiene through innovative experiential
learning & collaboration. 60 creativity fairs were also
training in primary schools. The Mission rooted in the
conducted with active participation from students.
belief of ‘Swasth Bacche, Mazboot Desh’ drove a range of
Skilling & Vocational Training initiatives to aid and enable the country in its fight against
preventable infections that create huge economic burden
This programme, aligned to Pradhan Mantri Kaushal
on the country.
Vikas Yojana provides training in market linked skills to
youth from marginalised sections including differently The programme, focused on spreading awareness for
abled, to enable them to engage in decent livelihoods. habit building of hand hygiene through interactive sessions
15,600 youth across 34 districts in 16 states were trained across India, covered 16,770 schools and reached out to
under different courses during the year, of which nearly about 32 lakh children during the year.
52% were female. Cumulatively, around 1.27 lakh youth
have been trained under the skilling programme. To scale Waste Management
up the skilling programme, your Company has also initiated
Your Company’s initiatives focus on creating replicable,
pilots for potential pathways of skilling in the community
scalable and sustainable models of municipal and rural
itself (1,700 trained in the year) and leveraging other skill
waste management that can be implemented across the
training partners in the ecosystem (893 in the year).
country to ensure that minimal waste goes to landfills.
Further, the programme for skilling differently abled youth Details of these models are provided in the section
running in Karnataka and West Bengal last year, was on ’Building a Circular Economy for Post-Consumer
expanded to Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha by Packaging’ above.
establishing new centres and also leveraging the existing
centres of implementing partners. During the year, Health & Nutrition
850 youth (cumulatively over 1,000) were trained and over
Your Company is adopting a holistic approach towards
530 have already been placed. Further, your Company’s
Community Healthcare, focusing on two major components
Sixth Sense programme, focused on making an impact
- preventive health care and curative services. Community
on the lives of visually challenged, covered 150 such
healthcare is initiated to address the challenges of
individuals across five cities.
awareness, availability, accessibility and affordability. The
objective of the initiative is to improve health and nutrition
Sanitation
by strengthening institutional capacity, supplementing
Your Company continues to adopt a multi-pronged
existing infrastructure, promoting greater convergence
approach towards improving public health and hygiene
with existing Government schemes like National Health
across 30 districts and 13 states. The programme focuses
Mission, leveraging technology and increasing access to
on ensuring sustainability of Open Defecation Free (ODF)
basic primary and secondary healthcare services.
habitations and then making them ODF+ through improved
hygiene, sanitation and waste management practices A two-pronged approach aligned to Government’s
which is aligned with Swachh Bharat Mission 2.0. POSHAN Abhiyan was adopted under Maternal and Child
Health and Nutrition (MCHN) programme:
Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) programme
was implemented in schools that included construction Focusing on first ‘1,000 days of life’ in high malnutrition
of sanitation units in schools, separate for girls and catchments covering mothers and children, and
108 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025