[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 236-238

[PAGE 236]
(c) The Company did not have any term loans outstanding during the year hence, the requirement to report on clause
(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(d) The Company did not raise any funds during the year hence, the requirement to report on clause (ix)(d) of the Order
is not applicable to the Company.
(e) On an overall examination of the financial statements of the Company, the Company has not taken any funds from
any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or joint venture. Hence,
the requirement to report on clause (ix)(e) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(f) The Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint venture
or associate companies. Hence, the requirement to report on clause (ix)(f) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company.
(x) (a) According to the information and explanations given by the management, the Company has not raised any money
during the year by way of initial public offer / further public offer (including debt instruments) hence, reporting under
clause 3(x)(a) is not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
(b) The Company has not made any preferential allotment or private placement of shares / fully or partially or optionally
convertible debentures during the year under audit and hence, the requirement to report on clause 3(x)(b) of the
Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xi) (a) No fraud by the Company or no material fraud on the Company has been noticed or reported during the year.
(b) During the year, no report under sub-section (12) of section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been filed
by cost auditor / secretarial auditor or by us in Form ADT – 4 as prescribed under Rule 13 of Companies
(Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
(c) We have taken into consideration the whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year while
determining the nature, timing and extent of audit procedures.
(xii) In our opinion, the Company is not a nidhi company. Therefore, the provisions of clause 3(xii) (a) to (c) of the Order are
not applicable to the Company and hence not commented upon.
(xiii) A ccording to the information and explanations given by the management, transactions with the related parties are in
compliance with section 177 and 188 of Companies Act, 2013 where applicable and the details have been disclosed in
the notes to the financial statements, as required by the applicable accounting standards.
(xiv) (a) The Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
(b) The internal audit reports of the Company issued till the date of the audit report, for the period under audit have
been considered by us.
(xv) According to the information and explanations given by the management, the Company has not entered into any
non-cash transactions with directors or persons connected with him as referred to in section 192 of Companies Act, 2013.
(xvi) (a) According to the information and explanations given to us, the provisions of section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934 are not applicable to the Company.
(b) The Company is not engaged in any Non-Banking Financial or Housing Finance activities. Accordingly, the
requirement to report on clause (xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(c) The Company is not a Core Investment Company as defined in the regulations made by Reserve Bank of India.
Accordingly, the requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(d) There is no Core Investment Company as a part of the Group, hence, the requirement to report on clause 3(xvi)(d)
of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
218 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 237]
(xvii) T he Company has not incurred cash losses in the current year and in the immediately preceding financial year.
(xviii) T here has been no resignation of the statutory auditors during the year and accordingly requirement to report on
Clause 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
(xix) On the basis of the financial ratios disclosed in note 29(xvii) to the standalone Ind AS financial statements, ageing and
expected dates of realization of financial assets and payment of financial liabilities, other information accompanying the
financial statements, our knowledge of the Board of Directors and management plans and based on our examination
of the evidence supporting the assumptions, nothing has come to our attention, which causes us to believe that any
material uncertainty exists as on the date of the audit report that Company is not capable of meeting its liabilities
existing at the date of balance sheet as and when they fall due within a period of one year from the balance sheet
date. We, however, state that this is not an assurance as to the future viability of the Company. We further state
that our reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any guarantee nor any
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged by
the Company as and when they fall due.
(xx) (a) In respect of other than ongoing projects, there are no unspent amounts that are required to be transferred to a
fund specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013, in compliance with second proviso to sub section 5 of
section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013. This matter has been disclosed in note 29(iii) to the standalone Ind AS
financial statements.
(b) There are no unspent amounts in respect of ongoing projects, that are required to be transferred to a special
account in compliance of provision of sub section (6) of section 135 of Companies Act, 2013. This matter has been
disclosed in note 29(iii) to the standalone Ind AS financial statements.
For S R B C & CO LLP
Chartered Accountants
ICAI Firm Registration Number: 324982E / E300003
per Arvind Sethi
Partner
Membership Number: 89802
Place of Signature: Kolkata
Date: May 22, 2025 UDIN: 25089802BMNPUK4099
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 219

[PAGE 238]
Annexure 2
to the Independent Auditor’s Report of even date on
the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements of ITC Limited
Report on the Internal Financial Controls under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act,
2013 (“the Act”)
We have audited the internal financial controls with reference to standalone Ind AS financial statements of ITC Limited
(“the Company”) as of March 31, 2025 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial statements of the
Company for the year ended on that date.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls
The Company’s Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls based on the internal
control over financial reporting criteria established by the Company considering the essential components of internal control
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of India (“ICAI”). These responsibilities include the design, implementation and maintenance of
adequate internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and efficient conduct of its
business, including adherence to the Company’s policies, the safeguarding of its assets, the prevention and detection of
frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial
information, as required under the Companies Act, 2013.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone
Ind AS financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the Guidance Note on Audit
of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting (the “Guidance Note”) and the Standards on Auditing, as specified
under section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial controls, both issued by ICAI.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to these standalone Ind
AS financial statements was established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
Our audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of the internal financial controls with
reference to these standalone Ind AS financial statements and their operating effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial
controls with reference to standalone Ind AS financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial
controls with reference to these standalone Ind AS financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. The
procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion
on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to these standalone Ind AS financial statements.
Meaning of Internal Financial Controls With Reference to these Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements
A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial statements is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal financial controls with
reference to financial statements includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
220 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025