[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 119-121

[PAGE 119]
Report of the Board of Directors
year the Centre partnered with Bureau of Indian take forward clean air agenda in India and promote
Standards (BIS) to develop standards related to focused actions through collective leadership of
waste management, sustainability, environmental Industry sub-sectors. The Forum led by 123 business
management and ecological priorities. The Centre leaders, contribute towards making the air quality in
also worked with the Central Pollution Control Board India better through the Crop Residue Management
to resolve challenges related to Extended Producer (CRM) and through city-level awareness activities. In
Responsibility (EPR) obligations under the rules the last six years the programme has led to saving of
for plastics, e-waste, battery and hazardous waste 12 million kg fine Particulate Matter (PM2.5).
management.
To enhance the ecosystem for Electric Vehicle (EV),
During the year, CII signed an MoU with the All-India CII facilitated industry inputs for 3 key Working Groups
Plastics Manufacturing Association to encourage under the newly formed National EV Task Force of
action, knowledge sharing, and awareness between the Ministry of Heavy Industries (MHI).
larger businesses and MSMEs.
Facilitating an Enabling Ecosystem for ESG Reporting
Since 2020, CII has been working across various
As part of SEBI’s Industry Standards Forum (ISF),
sectors and has successfully supported over
CII formed a Core Group and held consultations
260 sites in achieving SuP-free (single-use
to develop Standards for Reporting on Business
plastic-free) certification.
Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR)
During the year, the Centre hosted the first edition of Core. The recommendations made by CII on the
the CII Circular Economy Conference and launched SEBI Consultation Paper – ‘Recommendations of
the CII Sustainable Plastic Packaging Awards for the Expert Committee for Facilitating Ease of Doing
recognising upstream innovations and changes Business with respect to BRSR’ were accepted by the
in design of plastic packaging by businesses, regulatory body.
driving the transition towards a circular plastics
To help Indian organisations navigate ESG
economy in India.
compliances and go beyond compliance, CESD
Nature Positive Actions launched SaaS based ESG Subscription Service at
The India Business and Biodiversity Initiative the 19th Sustainability Summit.
(IBBI) participated in consultation meetings for The Eco Edge initiative of the Centre aims at integrating
updating the National Biodiversity Strategy and sustainability in the value chains of companies.
Action Plan (NBSAP), and for adoption of National
The focus areas include Decarbonisation, Circularity,
Biodiversity Targets (NBTs) in alignment with the
Health & Safety, and Human Rights. The programme
Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF). At COP16
evaluates the performance of sourcing companies and
to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in
their value chain partners. During the year, more than
Cali, Colombia, India launched its updated National
200 suppliers’ sustainability performance was assessed
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP).
through the Eco Edge programme for the automotive
IBBI was designated by the MoEFCC as the and energy sectors. For further adoption the Eco Edge
responsible agency for Target 15 of India’s updated Online Assessment Tool was also launched.
NBSAP. Target 15 focuses on sustainable production,
Knowledge Exchange and Excellence in Sustainability
supply chains, and disclosure of risks, aiming to ensure
The 19th Sustainability Summit, Centre’s flagship
businesses manage biodiversity risks effectively.
annual event, was organised with the theme of
Enhancing solutions for Clean Air
Driving Change for a Sustainability Conscious World.
‘India CEO Forum for Clean Air’ is a dedicated The Summit deliberated on tangible actions in
platform aiming to galvanise Indian businesses to driving sustainable change and highlighted inspiring
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 101

[PAGE 120]
Report of the Board of Directors
actions that exemplify the power of innovation, – strengthening capabilities of Implementation
development, and cooperation in shaping a prosperous Partners / Community Based Organisations (CBOs)
future for all. in all project catchments for participatory planning,
ownership and sustenance of interventions.
Through the CII–ITC Sustainability Awards,
35 organisations were recognised for excellence – facilitating the development agenda in a manner that
in sustainable business practices. The Awards is inclusive and empowers women, the poor and
are a part of the continued efforts of the Centre to marginalised communities including persons with
create awareness on sustainability practices and to disability in the vicinity of your Company’s factories
create capacities in business. and agri-catchments, thereby significantly improving
Human Development Indices (HDI).
To help industry manage climate risk, leverage
market opportunities and become climate resilient, – ensuring behavioural change through focus on
CII instituted a CAP 2.0° (Climate Action Programme) demand generation for all interventions, thereby
to build capacity of industry and recognise best enabling participation, contribution and asset creation
practices and innovation on climate action. for the community.
The CAP 2.0° awards are the first one in India
– pursuing the Prototype-Pilot-Scale-Amplification
to recognise industry’s efforts on climate change
approach to incorporate innovative and differentiated
mitigation and adaptation. The awards in its 3rd edition
design elements in a structured manner, whilst also
recognised 21 organisations for their pioneering work
striving for amplification of successful interventions by
in managing climate change.
partnering with Government and Collaboratives.
The Centre trained nearly 400 professionals from
Your Company’s stakeholders are confronted with
300+ organisations on sustainable business practices
multi-dimensional and inter-related concerns, at the
through 25 sessions conducted during the year.
core of which is the challenge of securing sustainable
livelihoods. Your Company undertakes periodic
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR)
stakeholder engagements in the form of community
Your Company’s overarching commitment towards
need assessments, impact assessments and other
creating significant and sustainable societal value is
evaluations. During the year, your Company undertook
manifest in its CSR initiatives that embrace the most
48 such community engagements across 14 states
disadvantaged sections of society, especially in rural
where your Company’s Social Investments Programme
India, through economic and social empowerment based
is being implemented, for the purpose of understanding
on grassroots capacity building. Your Company has a
grievances if any, of the community members. Further,
comprehensive CSR Policy outlining programmes, projects
over 3,000 household surveys were also conducted
and activities that your Company undertakes to create a
during the year. Accordingly, interventions under
significant positive impact on identified stakeholders. All
your Company’s Social Investments Programme have
these programmes fall within the purview of Section 135
been appropriately designed to build capacities and
read with Schedule VII of the Companies Act, 2013 and
promote sustainable livelihoods.
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy)
Your Company’s Social Investments Programme follows
Rules, 2014.
the Two Horizon approach that focuses on inclusive
The key tenets of your Company’s CSR interventions are:
growth and holistic development of households; with
– deep engagement in identified core operational women and poor & vulnerable communities at the core.
geographies to promote holistic development and In addition to being beneficiaries of several programmes,
interventions designed in order to respond to the women are also influencers and active participants in
most significant development challenges of your grassroot institutions. Several such women also act as
Company’s stakeholder groups. change makers in the society.
102 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 121]
Report of the Board of Directors
The Two Horizon approach provides an integrated and To address the magnitude of water stress, your Company
affirmative response to development by transforming has also extended water stewardship work to river basin
lives and landscapes. Whilst Horizon-I focuses on level interventions so that the competing demands from
strengthening and sustaining livelihoods of communities neighbouring areas of our catchments are addressed
(primarily agriculture and allied sector livelihoods); and a more holistic and sustainable impact created.
Horizon-II focuses on building capabilities and capacities
Work done in four river basins till date in Maharashtra
to empower communities for a better life for the future.
(Ghod basin), Madhya Pradesh (Kolans basin), Tamil Nadu
The footprint of your Company’s CSR projects is (Upper Bhawani basin) and Telangana (Murreru basin)
spread across 24 states/Union Territories covering over have resulted in the basins achieving water positive status,
300 districts. as against the water deficit estimated in baseline
studies. Work has started in the fifth basin in Karnataka
Your Company’s CSR interventions were conferred
(South Pennar basin), based on the recommendations
with three prestigious awards and recognitions during
from the river basin study done through Indian Institute of
FY 2024-25:
Science (IISc).
– First Prize in FICCI Sustainable Agriculture Awards
2024 in the ‘Natural Resource Management and The coverage of water stewardship programme currently
Climate Resilient Agriculture’ category for the Climate extends to 59 districts of 17 states. During the year,
Smart Village Programme the area under watershed increased by over 1.78 lakh
acres, taking the cumulative coverage area to 18.16 lakh
– IIT Madras CSR Awards 2024 under the theme
acres. Over 3,500 water-harvesting structures including
‘Technology-Driven Inclusive Social Impact’ for
ground water recharge structures were built during the
deployment of technology in Climate Smart Agriculture
year, creating 5.83 million kl of rainwater harvesting
– ‘Gold’ Prize in Financial Express Green Sarathi Award
potential. The total number of water-harvesting structures
2024, in the Water Stewardship category
reached to over 35,900 and the net water storage potential
to over 59.90 million kl. In addition, as part of demand
Natural Resources Management - Water Stewardship
management intervention, your Company continues
Programme
to work with farmers to achieve ‘more crop per drop’
The Water Stewardship programme aims to facilitate water
by promoting agronomic practices and micro irrigation
security for all dependents in the factory catchments and
techniques targeted towards saving water in cultivation
to drought-proof the agri-catchments to minimise risks to
and improving farmer incomes. Over 18 lakh acres across
agricultural livelihoods arising from drought and moisture
more than 15 crops in 12 states have been covered
stress. The programme is aligned to Jal Shakti Abhiyan,
during the year as part of demand management. Studies
the flagship initiative of Government of India for water
have been conducted by ICAR’s Agricultural Technology
conservation. The programme promotes the development
Application Research Institute, Kanpur, Indian Institute of
and management of local water resources in
Rice Research, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and
moisture-stressed areas by facilitating community
Vasantdada Sugar Institute to estimate water savings
participation in planning and implementing such
in rice, wheat, sugarcane, coconut and banana in
measures, as well as building, reviving and maintaining
your Company’s programme locations. Basis these
water-harvesting structures and thus conserving the
studies and other research documents, it is estimated
wetland ecosystems. In addition to rural and agri
focus, two urban water programmes are also being that the demand management practices promoted
implemented in Bengaluru and Chennai aimed at by your Company have led to potential water savings
addressing the challenges associated with urban water. to the tune of over 1,400 million kl during the year.
These programmes facilitate revival of urban water bodies, To improve water use efficiency, prototypes and pilots
targeted recharge of shallow aquifers and promotion also have been initiated to test efficacy of technologies
of practices like roof water harvesting and water like organic hydrogel, mobile drip system and smart
efficient taps. irrigation switches.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 103