[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 28-30

[PAGE 28]
Your Directors
Other Directorships Seth is a retired IAS Officer with administrative experience
of more than 41 years. He retired in June 2015 after
Name of the entity Position
serving for four years as the Cabinet Secretary of
KEC International Limited # Independent Director GoI, the highest position in civil services. Thereafter,
he was appointed as Chairman of the Public Enterprises
JSW Steel Limited # Independent Director
Selection Board. In a varied and distinguished career,
his past assignments include postings in the
Committee Membership of other entities
Ministry of Commerce, the Permanent Mission of India to
Name of the entity Committee Position the United Nations at Geneva (dealing with GATT / UNCTAD)
and the Ministry of Textiles. Earlier in Uttar Pradesh,
KEC International Stakeholders Chairperson
he served as Principal Secretary - Rural Development,
Limited Relationship
Special Secretary - Industries, Divisional Commissioner
Committee
of Kumaon Division and District Magistrate, Lucknow.
Sustainability and Chairperson
Seth does not hold directorship in any other entity.
Corporate Social
Responsibility
Committee
A. Singh
Nomination and Member
Atul Singh (65), DIN: 00060943, joined the ITC Board
Remuneration
as a Non-Executive Director effective April 2, 2024, as a
Committee
representative of TMI, a subsidiary of BAT.
JSW Steel Limited Corporate Social Chairperson Singh holds Degrees of Bachelors in Commerce from
Responsibility St. Xavier’s College, Kolkata, and Masters in Business
Committee Administration from TCU Neeley School of Business,
Texas, USA. He is a retired executive with more than
Nomination and Member
35 years of diverse experience in consumer-oriented
Remuneration
roles across multiple geographies. He started his career
Committee
as an Auditor with Price Waterhouse, USA, and has held
several senior leadership positions at Colgate-Palmolive,
Coca-Cola and Fawaz Abdulaziz Alhokair Company,
and also Raymond Limited as Executive Vice Chairman
A. K. Seth
(Senior Management Personnel).
Ajit Kumar Seth (73), DIN: 08504093, joined the Singh is a Member of Young Presidents’ Organization,
ITC Board as an Independent Director effective New Delhi Chapter, and a Member Designate
July 13, 2019. of the Governing Board of Plan International,
India Chapter, a NGO working in over 80 countries.
An alumnus of St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, from where
He has been on the Boards of Genesis Colors Limited,
he did his post-graduation in Chemistry, Seth obtained an
Coca-Cola India Private Limited and Coca-Cola India
M. Phil in Life Sciences from Jawaharlal Nehru University,
Foundation, and was an Independent Director of
New Delhi, and Masters in Development Finance
Bata India Limited from 2011 to 2014. He has also served
from the University of Birmingham, UK. In 2015, as Chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in
the University of Birmingham conferred upon him a India and as a Member of the Advisory Board of AIESEC,
Doctorate Honoris Causa. the world’s largest student organisation, in India.
10 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 29]
Your Directors
Other Directorships sectors including tribal, women & child development,
urban development and poverty alleviation. She was the
Name of the entity Position
Secretary of the Ministry of Food Processing Industries,
Compass Limited, Non-Executive Director
GoI, for more than three years, from where she retired
Bermuda *
in January 2022. She also worked as Finance Secretary
Committee Membership of other entities: Nil of the combined State of Andhra Pradesh and has
expertise in handling public finance. Since 2013, she
managed the employment intensive sectors of textiles
P. Subrahmanyam and food processing industries at the national level
in the GoI. She has had high level exposure to
Pushpa Subrahmanyam (63), DIN: 01894076, was
policy making having worked in the Prime Minister’s
appointed as an Independent Director on the Board of ITC
effective April 2, 2024. Office for four years. She also worked with the
erstwhile Department for International Development, UK,
A Masters in Development Planning and Project
as Governance Adviser for three years. She has been
Management from the University of Bradford, UK, and
on the Boards of National Textile Corporation Limited,
a Masters in Political Science from the University of
Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corporation Limited
Hyderabad, she is a retired IAS Officer with administrative
experience of over 36 years. and Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Limited,
amongst others.
She joined the Indian Administrative Service in 1985
(Andhra Pradesh cadre) and has worked across several She presently does not hold directorship in any other entity.
* Denotes foreign entity
# Denotes Indian entity whose securities are listed on a recognised stock exchange
Notes:
1. Other Directorships and Committee Memberships of Directors are as on 22nd May, 2025.
2. Committee Memberships cover Committees under the Companies Act, 2013 viz., Audit Committee, Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Nomination
and Remuneration Committee and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of Indian entities.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 11

[PAGE 30]
Report on
Corporate Governance
The Directors present the Company’s Report on ITC’s Corporate Governance structure, systems and
Corporate Governance pursuant to the Securities and processes are based on two core principles:
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
(i) Management must have the executive freedom to
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’).
drive the enterprise forward without undue restraints,
ITC Limited has been one of the frontrunners in India and
to have put in place a formalised system of
(ii) This freedom of management should be exercised
Corporate Governance. Its governance framework enjoins
within a framework of effective accountability.
the highest standards of ethical and responsible conduct
ITC believes that any meaningful policy on Corporate
of business to create value for all stakeholders.
Governance must empower the executive management
THE COMPANY’S GOVERNANCE PHILOSOPHY of the Company. At the same time, Governance should
create a mechanism of checks and balances to ensure
ITC defines Corporate Governance as a systemic
that the decision-making powers vested in the executive
process by which companies are directed and controlled
management are used with care and responsibility to
to enhance their wealth-generating capacity. Since large
meet stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
corporations employ a vast quantum of societal resources,
ITC believes that the governance process should ensure From this definition and core principles of Corporate
that these resources are utilised in a manner that meets Governance emerge the cornerstones of ITC’s governance
stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations. philosophy, namely trusteeship, transparency, ethical
This belief is reflected in the Company’s deep commitment corporate citizenship, empowerment & accountability and
to contribute to the “triple bottom line”, namely conservation control. ITC believes that the practice of each of these
and development of the nation’s economic, social and creates the right corporate culture that fulfils the true
environmental capital. purpose of Corporate Governance.
The cornerstones of ITC’s governance philosophy are
trusteeship, transparency, ethical corporate citizenship,
empowerment & accountability and control.
12 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025