[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 26-28

[PAGE 26]
Your Directors
S. Mukherjee A. Nayak
Shyamal Mukherjee (65), DIN: 03024803, joined the Anand Nayak (73), DIN: 00973758, joined the
ITC Board as an Independent Director effective ITC Board as an Independent Director effective
August 11, 2021. July 13, 2019.
Mukherjee is a Chartered Accountant and also holds Nayak is a Post Graduate in Personnel Management and
Degrees of Bachelors in Commerce and Law from Industrial Relations from XLRI Jamshedpur. He joined
Delhi University. He is the former Chairman and ITC in 1973 and served for more than 42 years until
Senior Partner of PricewaterhouseCoopers (‘PwC’) in
his retirement in December 2015.
India. With over 37 years of experience, he started his
During his long tenure with the Company, Nayak held
professional journey with PwC in 1984 and became
various portfolios and worked across several businesses
a Partner in 1993. As PwC’s Chairman, he was at
as well as at Corporate Headquarters where he headed
the forefront of making it a more future-ready firm,
the Human Resources Function from 1996 to 2015.
investing in and strengthening the firm’s key capabilities
He served on the Corporate Management Committee of
across its people, go-to-market initiatives and internal
ITC for over 18 years from 1997 to 2015. He was also
transformation. He is the Managing Trustee of the
responsible for overall management of Social Sector
Phanindranath Education Trust, West Bengal, and also a
initiatives under the CSR agenda of ITC, and mentored
Member of the Bar Council of Delhi.
the Mission Sunehra Kal team in crafting enduring
Other Directorships
sustainability solutions for rural India.
Name of the entity Position
Nayak does not hold directorship in any other entity.
Bharti Airtel Limited # Independent Director
Urban Company Limited Independent Director
Handy Home Solutions Private Independent Director A. Pande
Limited
Alok Pande (53), DIN: 10631871, was appointed as a
Committee Membership of other entities Non-Executive Director on the ITC Board effective
July 27, 2024, representing the Specified Undertaking of
Name of the entity Committee Position
the Unit Trust of India (‘SUUTI’).
Bharti Airtel Limited Audit Committee Chairperson
Pande, a senior Civil Servant specialised in Finance, is
Stakeholders Member presently Additional Secretary, Department of
Relationship Investment and Public Asset Management (‘DIPAM’),
Committee
Ministry of Finance, GoI. He holds a Bachelors Degree in
Engineering (Mechanical) from the Motilal Nehru National
Urban Company Audit Committee Chairperson
Institute of Technology, Allahabad, and has also
Limited
Nomination and Member
completed Fellow Programme in Management (Doctorate)
Remuneration
from the Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore,
Committee
in the area of capital markets.
8 ITC Limited
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 27]
Your Directors
Pande qualified the Civil Services Exam of 1993 and played key leadership roles in complex business &
belongs to the 1994 batch of the Indian Postal Service. regulatory environments, and has led significant M&A
In his career spanning over 30 years, he has held various transactions as well as key strategic initiatives across
positions in the GoI, including Joint Secretary - DIPAM, geographies.
and Director - Department of Financial Services (‘DFS’)
Panray does not hold directorship in any other entity.
in the Ministry of Finance. As Joint Secretary, he handled
the IPO of LIC and played a key role in listing of three
more Government companies viz., Mazagon Dock
Shipbuilders Limited, Indian Railway Finance Corporation
N. Rao
Limited and RailTel Corporation of India Limited.
As Director - DFS, he was instrumental in the launch and Nirupama Rao (74), DIN: 06954879, was appointed
execution of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana. He has as an Independent Director on the Board of ITC
also handled the IT Project of the Department of Posts, effective April 8, 2016.
Ministry of Communications, as Deputy Director General.
A Post Graduate in English Literature, she is also a
He is a Member of the Body of Persons / Administrator
Fellow - Harvard University, Fellow - Brown University,
of SUUTI.
Jawaharlal Nehru Fellow, and a recipient of the Degree of
Other Directorships
Doctor of Letters (Honoris Causa) from the Pondicherry
Name of the entity Position University. She was conferred with the Vanitha Ratna
by the Government of Kerala in 2016. She is a Global
Indian Bank # Nominee Director
Fellow of The Wilson Center in Washington, D.C.,
Committee Membership of other entities: Nil Council Member of the World Refugee & Migration
Council, Council Member & Court Member of the
Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, and an Advisor to
the Board of US-India Business Council. She is also a
S. Panray
Member of the Council of Management and Society of the
Sunil Panray (67), DIN: 09251023, was appointed
National Institute of Advanced Studies as well as
as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of ITC effective
of the Board of Governors of the Indian Council for
August 11, 2021, as a representative of Tobacco
Research on International Economic Relations, besides
Manufacturers (India) Limited (‘TMI’), a subsidiary of
being a Founder Trustee of The South Asian Symphony
British American Tobacco p.l.c. (‘BAT’).
Foundation, Bengaluru.
Panray holds Degrees of Bachelors in Commerce and
A career diplomat from the Indian Foreign Service
Masters in Business Administration from Concordia
from 1973 to 2011, she served the Government in
University in Montreal, Canada. He is a retired
several important positions including that of the Foreign
senior executive. He started his professional journey as a
Secretary of India. She has represented India in several
Senior Auditor and Financial Consultant with Raymond
countries during her distinguished career and was the first
Chabot Grant Thornton, Canada, and has held senior
Indian woman to be appointed High Commissioner to
leadership positions at Imasco Limited, Imperial Tobacco,
Canada, and BAT. He has also served as the Sri Lanka and Ambassador to China. She was also the first
Vice President - Finance and Treasurer of Canadian woman spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs.
National Railway Company, the largest transcontinental After her retirement, she was appointed Ambassador of
public railway transportation company in Canada, from India to the United States for a period of two years from
2012 to 2016. During his professional career, he has 2011 to 2013.
ITC Limited 9
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 28]
Your Directors
Other Directorships Seth is a retired IAS Officer with administrative experience
of more than 41 years. He retired in June 2015 after
Name of the entity Position
serving for four years as the Cabinet Secretary of
KEC International Limited # Independent Director GoI, the highest position in civil services. Thereafter,
he was appointed as Chairman of the Public Enterprises
JSW Steel Limited # Independent Director
Selection Board. In a varied and distinguished career,
his past assignments include postings in the
Committee Membership of other entities
Ministry of Commerce, the Permanent Mission of India to
Name of the entity Committee Position the United Nations at Geneva (dealing with GATT / UNCTAD)
and the Ministry of Textiles. Earlier in Uttar Pradesh,
KEC International Stakeholders Chairperson
he served as Principal Secretary - Rural Development,
Limited Relationship
Special Secretary - Industries, Divisional Commissioner
Committee
of Kumaon Division and District Magistrate, Lucknow.
Sustainability and Chairperson
Seth does not hold directorship in any other entity.
Corporate Social
Responsibility
Committee
A. Singh
Nomination and Member
Atul Singh (65), DIN: 00060943, joined the ITC Board
Remuneration
as a Non-Executive Director effective April 2, 2024, as a
Committee
representative of TMI, a subsidiary of BAT.
JSW Steel Limited Corporate Social Chairperson Singh holds Degrees of Bachelors in Commerce from
Responsibility St. Xavier’s College, Kolkata, and Masters in Business
Committee Administration from TCU Neeley School of Business,
Texas, USA. He is a retired executive with more than
Nomination and Member
35 years of diverse experience in consumer-oriented
Remuneration
roles across multiple geographies. He started his career
Committee
as an Auditor with Price Waterhouse, USA, and has held
several senior leadership positions at Colgate-Palmolive,
Coca-Cola and Fawaz Abdulaziz Alhokair Company,
and also Raymond Limited as Executive Vice Chairman
A. K. Seth
(Senior Management Personnel).
Ajit Kumar Seth (73), DIN: 08504093, joined the Singh is a Member of Young Presidents’ Organization,
ITC Board as an Independent Director effective New Delhi Chapter, and a Member Designate
July 13, 2019. of the Governing Board of Plan International,
India Chapter, a NGO working in over 80 countries.
An alumnus of St. Stephen’s College, Delhi, from where
He has been on the Boards of Genesis Colors Limited,
he did his post-graduation in Chemistry, Seth obtained an
Coca-Cola India Private Limited and Coca-Cola India
M. Phil in Life Sciences from Jawaharlal Nehru University,
Foundation, and was an Independent Director of
New Delhi, and Masters in Development Finance
Bata India Limited from 2011 to 2014. He has also served
from the University of Birmingham, UK. In 2015, as Chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce in
the University of Birmingham conferred upon him a India and as a Member of the Advisory Board of AIESEC,
Doctorate Honoris Causa. the world’s largest student organisation, in India.
10 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025