[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 256-258

[PAGE 256]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
Group Information
ITC Limited (the ‘Holding Company’) [CIN: L16005WB1910PLC001985] its subsidiaries (together referred to as the ‘Group’)
is a public limited company domiciled in India with has presence in multiple businesses spanning
its registered office located at Virginia House, Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (Cigarettes & Cigars,
37 Jawaharlal Nehru Road, Kolkata 700 071. The Holding Foods, Personal Care Products, Education &
Company’s shares are listed on the National Stock Stationery Products, Safety Matches and Agarbattis),
Exchange of India Limited, BSE Limited and The Calcutta Paperboards, Paper and Packaging, Agri Business and
Stock Exchange Limited. The Holding Company and Information Technology.
1. Material Accounting Policies
Statement of Compliance affects only that period; they are recognised in the period
These financial statements have been prepared in of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both
accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) current and future periods.
notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and Basis of Consolidation
amendments thereto. The financial statements have also
The Consolidated Financial Statements (CFS) include the
been prepared in accordance with the relevant presentation
financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries
requirements of the Companies Act, 2013. The Group
together with the share of the total comprehensive income
adopted Ind AS from 1st April, 2016.
of joint ventures and associates.
Basis of Preparation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. Associates
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with are entities over which the Group exercise significant
the historical cost convention, except for certain items that influence but does not control. Joint Ventures (“JV”) are
are measured at amortised cost or fair value, as explained entities in which the Group has the ability to exercise control
in the accounting policies. jointly with one or more uncontrolled entities and the parties
have proportionate interests in the assets and liabilities of
Fair Value is the price that would be received to sell an
the JV entity.
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date, Control, significant influence and joint control is assessed
regardless of whether that price is directly observable or annually with reference to the voting power (usually arising
estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating from equity shareholdings and potential voting rights) and
the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into other rights (usually contractual) enjoyed by the Group in
account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market its capacity as an investor that provides it the power and
participants would take those characteristics into account consequential ability to direct the investee’s activities and
when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. significantly affect the Group’s returns from its investment.
Fair value for measurement and / or disclosure purposes in Such assessment requires the exercise of judgement and
these consolidated financial statements is determined on is disclosed by way of a note to the Financial Statements.
such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions The Group is considered not to be in control of entities
that are within the scope of Ind AS 102 – Share-based where it is unclear as to whether it enjoys such power over
Payment, leasing transactions that are within the scope of the investee.
Ind AS 116 – Leases, and measurements that have some The assets, liabilities, income and expenses of subsidiaries
similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net are aggregated and consolidated, line by line, from the date
realisable value in Ind AS 2 – Inventories or value in use in control is acquired by any Group entity to the date it ceases.
Ind AS 36 – Impairment of Assets. Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive
The preparation of financial statements in conformity income are attributed to the Group as owners and to the
with Ind AS requires management to make judgements, non-controlling interests. The Group presents the non-
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the controlling interests in the Balance Sheet within equity,
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and separately from the equity of the Group as owners. The
liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities excess of the Group’s investment in a subsidiary over
at the date of the financial statements, and the reported its share in the net worth of such subsidiary on the date
amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Actual control is acquired is treated as goodwill while a deficit is
results could differ from those estimates. The estimates considered as a capital reserve in the CFS.
and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing An investment in an associate or a JV is initially recognised
basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised at cost on the date of the investment, and inclusive of
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision any goodwill / capital reserve embedded in the cost, in the
238 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 257]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Balance Sheet. The proportionate share of the Group in value, over their useful lives as specified in Schedule II of
the net profits / losses as also in the other comprehensive the Companies Act, 2013 on a straight-line basis. Land is
income is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss not depreciated.
and the carrying value of the investment is adjusted by a
The estimated useful lives of PP&E of the Group are as
like amount (referred as ‘equity method’).
follows:
All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses
Buildings 30-60 Years
and cash flows relating to transactions between members
of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. While Leasehold Improvement Shorter of lease period or
preparing CFS, appropriate adjustments are made to estimated useful lives
subsidiaries / associates / JVs financial statements to ensure Plant and Equipment 3-25 Years
conformity with the Group’s accounting policies.
Furniture and Fixtures 8-10 Years
Operating Cycle
Vehicles 8-10 Years
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current or
Office Equipment 5 Years
non-current as per the Group’s normal operating cycle and
other criteria set out in the Schedule III to the Companies Act, PP&E’s residual values, useful lives and method of
2013 and Ind AS 1 – Presentation of Financial Statements depreciation are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date
based on the nature of products and the time between the and changes, if any, are treated as changes in accounting
acquisition of assets for processing and their realisation in estimate.
cash and cash equivalents. The Group has identified twelve
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
months as its operating cycle.
Goodwill
Property, Plant and Equipment
Goodwill arising on Business Combination is carried at
Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) are stated at cost of
cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The Group
acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation
also presents the excess of the Group’s investment in a
and accumulated impairment, if any. For this purpose,
subsidiary over its share in the net worth of such subsidiary
cost includes deemed cost which represents the carrying
on the date control is acquired as goodwill arising on
value of PP&E recognised as at 1st April, 2015 measured
consolidation.
as per the previous Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles (GAAP). Goodwill is annually tested for impairment. Impairment
loss, if any, to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the
Cost is inclusive of inward freight, import duties & non-
recoverable amount is charged off to the Statement of Profit
refundable taxes and incidental expenses related
and Loss as it arises and is not reversed. For impairment
to acquisition. In respect of major projects involving
construction, related pre-operational expenses form part of testing, goodwill is allocated to Cash Generating Unit (CGU)
the value of assets capitalised. Expenses capitalised also or group of CGUs to which it relates, which is not larger
include applicable borrowing costs for qualifying assets, than an operating segment, and is monitored for internal
if any. All upgradation / enhancements are charged off as management purposes.
revenue expenditure unless they bring similar significant On disposal of the CGU or group of CGUs, attributable
additional benefits. amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the
An item of PP&E is derecognised upon disposal or when profit or loss recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
no future economic benefits are expected to arise from
Other Intangible Assets
the continued use of asset. Any gain or loss arising on the
Other Intangible Assets that the Group controls and from
disposal or retirement of an item of PP&E is determined as
which it expects future economic benefits, are capitalised
the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying
upon acquisition and measured initially:
amount of the asset and is recognised in the Statement of
Profit and Loss. a. for assets acquired in a business combination, at fair
value on the date of acquisition.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets
are ready for their intended use, which is generally on b. for separately acquired assets, at cost comprising
commissioning. Items of PP&E are depreciated in a manner the purchase price (including import duties and non-
that amortizes the cost (or other amount substituted for refundable taxes) and directly attributable costs to
cost) of the assets after commissioning, less its residual prepare the asset for its intended use.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 239

[PAGE 258]
Notes
to the Consolidated Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Internally generated assets for which the cost is clearly with finite lives and to confirm that business circumstances
identifiable are capitalised at cost. Research expenditure is continue to support an indefinite useful life assessment for
recognised as an expense when it is incurred. Development assets so classified. Based on such review, the useful life
costs are capitalised only after the technical and commercial may change or the useful life assessment may change from
feasibility of the asset for sale or use has been established. indefinite to finite. The impact of such changes is accounted
Thereafter, all directly attributable expenditure incurred to for as a change in accounting estimate.
prepare the asset for its intended use are recognised as the
Investment Property
cost of such assets. Internally generated brands, websites
and customer lists are not recognised as intangible assets. Properties that are held for long-term rental yields
and / or for capital appreciation are classified as investment
The carrying value of intangible assets includes deemed
properties. Investment properties are stated at cost of
cost which represents the carrying value of intangible
acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation
assets recognised as at 1st April, 2015 measured as per
and impairment, if any. Depreciation is recognised using
the previous GAAP.
the straight-line method so as to amortize the cost of
After initial recognition, an intangible asset is carried at its
investment properties over their useful lives as specified
cost less accumulated amortization and / or accumulated
in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. Freehold land
impairment losses.
and properties under construction are not depreciated. The
The useful life of an intangible asset is considered finite
estimates useful lives of investment properties are same as
where the rights to such assets are limited to a specified
those disclosed as PP&E.
period of time by contract or law (e.g. patents, licences,
Transfers to, or from, investment properties are made at
trademarks, franchise and servicing rights) or the likelihood
the carrying amount when and only when there is a change
of technical, technological obsolescence (e.g. computer
in use.
software, design, prototypes) or commercial obsolescence
(e.g. lesser known brands are those to which adequate An item of investment property is derecognised upon
marketing support may not be provided). If, there are no disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected
such limitations, the useful life is taken to be indefinite. to arise from the continued use of asset. Any gain or loss
arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of investment
Intangible assets that have finite lives are amortized over
property is determined as the difference between the sales
their estimated useful lives by the straight-line method
proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is
unless it is practical to reliably determine the pattern of
benefits arising from the asset. An intangible asset with recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
an indefinite useful life is not amortized. However, it is Income received from investment property is recognised
annually tested for impairment. Amortization expenses and in the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis
impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses are over the term of the lease.
included in the ‘Depreciation and amortization expense’ in
Impairment of Assets
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent, the carrying
The estimated useful lives of intangible assets of the Group
amount of assets or CGU exceeds their recoverable
with finite lives are as follows:
amount.
Trademarks / Know How, 10 Years (unless shorter
Recoverable amount is higher of an asset’s fair value less
Business and Commercial useful life is required based
costs of disposal and its value in use. Value in use is the
Rights on contractual or legal
present value of estimated future cash flows expected to
terms)
arise from the continuing use of an asset or CGU and from
Computer Software 3-5 Years its disposal at the end of its useful life.
Customer Relationships / 5 Years Impairment losses recognised in prior years are reversed
Contracts when there is an indication that the impairment losses
recognised no longer exist or have decreased. Such
Business Alliances / 7 Years
reversals are recognised as an increase in carrying
Partnerships
amounts of assets to the extent that it does not exceed the
Software Tools 6 Years carrying amounts that would have been determined (net of
The useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually to amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss been
determine if a reset of such useful life is required for assets recognised in previous years.
240 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025