[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 365-367

[PAGE 365]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board?
(Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
Yes, the ITC Code of Conduct requires the Directors, Senior Management and employees to avoid situations in which
their personal interests could conflict with the interests of the Company. The Code, inter alia, clarifies that conflict of
interest may arise when (a) an employee or a family member (family member includes spouse, children, siblings and
parents) has a material interest in an entity that has a business relationship with the Company or is being evaluated
for a commercial transaction, or (b) an employee is in a position to benefit someone with whom he / she has a close
relationship, in relation to the Company’s business. However, this is an area in which it is impossible to provide
comprehensive guidance but the guiding principle is that conflict, if any, or any potential conflict must be disclosed to
higher management for guidance and action as appropriate.
Further, the Directors of the Company are required to disclose to the Board whether they, directly or indirectly or on
behalf of third parties, have material interest in any transaction or matter directly affecting the Company. In addition,
an annual confirmation is sought from the Directors in this connection. For the financial year 2024-25, all Directors of
the Company have confirmed that they did not, either directly or indirectly or on behalf of third parties, have material
interest in any transaction or matter, directly affecting the Company.
Principle 2
Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the
environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity,
respectively.
Details of investment in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes
(“Specific R&D” and “Specific Capex”) are as follows:
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Specific R&D to total R&D 18.6% 13.3%
Specific Capex to total Capex 28.7% 28.6%
a) R&D
LSTC - ITC’s Innovation Engine
ITC’s state-of-the-art Life Sciences and Technology Centre (ITC LSTC) in Bengaluru is at the core of driving science-
led product innovation to support and build ITC’s portfolio of world-class products and brands. It has completed five
decades of industrial research and development (R&D). The research community at ITC LSTC comprises over 400
highly qualified scientists with diverse expertise base and skill sets with a mandate to work on future-ready science
platforms, design differentiated products to address unique consumer needs and deliver superior benefits. The R&D
programmes are designed to make impactful business outcomes, provide superlative product experience to Indian
consumers at affordable price, and offer them multiple choices through a bouquet of products with world class quality.
At the inception stage of designing new products and process innovation, sustainability is considered as a key guiding
principle.
Future Ready Platforms for Driving Innovation across ITC Businesses
LSTC is equipped with world-class scientific infrastructure and state-of-the-art facilities to create deep knowledge
base and build intellectual property for ITC through research, rapid prototyping and process development. Over 800
patents have been filed till date, bearing testimony to LSTC’s innovation capabilities. In line with ITC’s relentless
focus on operational excellence and quality, each business is mandated to continuously innovate on materials, training,
processes and systems to enhance their competitiveness. ITC has been in the frontline of introducing first-to-market
innovative products for Indian consumers.
XVIII

[PAGE 366]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
Healthy & Sustainable Food Products
• Innovative science-based platforms and superior sensory attributes continue to drive creation of healthier and
superior foods. In addition, research efforts continue towards reduction in salt, sugar and fat without compromising
on sensory attributes. Efforts are also underway to increase nutrients that are beneficial for health/nutrition like
fibre, vitamins and minerals.
• LSTC, in collaboration with Agri and Branded Packaged Foods Businesses, endeavours to ensure that contemporary
science-based outcomes are fully integrated across key agri value chains from farm to fork, including wheat,
potato and spices.
• State of art analytical testing facilities at LSTC are deployed to ensure safety and superior quality of the products.
Sustainable Products in the Personal & Home Care Segments
• R&D-Product Development team of Personal Care Products Business (PCPB) at LSTC continues to leverage
science and technology led capabilities to build future product pipeline readiness in Health & Hygiene, Personal
Wash, Fragrances, Home Care and Skin Care categories.
• Further, the team has been developing products with sustainable formulation, efficient processing and sustainable
packaging, which include high recycled content, lower packaging weight and recyclable packaging across personal
care and home care categories.
Sustainable Materials & Packaging
• ITC LSTC has developed proprietary patented innovative barrier solutions that serve as a sustainable alternative
to conventional synthetic polymers. These advanced materials offer excellent barrier to oil, grease and water,
making them an ideal choice for FMCG packaging.
• For Quick Service Restaurant (QSR) segment, these tailored-solutions not only enhance product performance but
also align with global sustainability goals by reducing dependency on conventional fossil fuel derived materials.
Agro-Forestry and Crop Sciences
• LSTC has established different cutting-edge tools and platforms with an ambitious R&D program for improving
tree and crop species of interest to ITC for desired traits like yield, quality, abiotic and biotic stress. This supports
securing raw materials given the rising challenges of climate change and depleting resources.
• Ongoing research has major emphasis on developing climate resilient crops and pulp wood species in order to
address the security of raw material supplies across the Company’s value chains while ensuring enhanced farmer
profitability. As an example, in the past 5 years more than 10 million saplings of new hybrids with >20% higher
wood yields have been deployed in farmers’ fields. This enables secured raw material supply while ensuring
better farm income and enhanced carbon sequestration.
b) Capex investments
Specific Capex include investments in the areas of renewable energy, green buildings, energy efficient equipment,
pollution control equipment, water management and treatment system (including rain water harvesting) etc.
For more details, refer to ‘Report of the Board of Directors & Management Discussion and Analysis’ section forming part of
ITC’s Report and Accounts 2025.
2.a. Does the entity have procedures in place for sustainable sourcing?
Yes, there are procedures in place for sustainable sourcing. ITC has a Board approved Policy on ‘Sustainable Supply
Chain and Responsible Sourcing’ and a ‘Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers’. The Code reflects ITC’s
commitment to environmental conservation, business integrity and human rights. All suppliers are encouraged to fully
comply with the Code. Additionally, ITC businesses, including Agri, FMCG and Paper Businesses, depend on farm and
forestry-based supply chains for key raw materials. Accordingly, focus of ITC’s interventions in agri value chains has
been largely around improving farmer livelihoods, increasing agricultural productivity, strengthening regional water
security, and addressing the challenge of climate change and enhancing resilience. ITC’s key agri value chains are also
certified as per global standards like Rainforest Alliance (RFA), Forest Stewardship Council®, Fairtrade, India Organic
and USDA Organic. These certifications specify environmental and social standards for agricultural practices, and help
ensure sustainability, traceability and transparency.
Note: For more details on ITC’s sustainable sourcing practices pertaining to key agri value chains and key value chain partners
like third-party manufacturers, refer to ‘Sustainable and Climate Resilient Agriculture’ and ‘Sustainable Supply Chain and
Responsible Sourcing’ sections of ITC Sustainability Report 2025.
XIX

[PAGE 367]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
ITC businesses, including Agri, FMCG and Paper Businesses, depend on farm and forestry-based supply chains for key
raw materials. Accordingly, farmers constitute a vital part of ITC’s supply chain, and the Company engages with farmers
to ensure adoption of sustainable agriculture practices. ITC’s key agri value chains are also certified as per global
standards like Rainforest Alliance (RFA), Forest Stewardship Council®, Fairtrade, India Organic and USDA Organic.
Note: For more details on ITC’s sustainable sourcing practices pertaining to key agri value chains and key value chain partners
like third-party manufacturers, refer to ‘Sustainable and Climate Resilient Agriculture’ and ‘Sustainable Supply Chain and
Responsible Sourcing’ sections of ITC Sustainability Report 2025.
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of
life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
Description Of Processes
Plastics ITC first achieved Plastic Neutrality in FY 2021-22 by implementing an integrated solid waste
(including management programme that incorporates unique and multi-dimensional initiatives including
packaging) the Company’s flagship waste management initiative ‘ITC WOW – Well-Being Out of Waste’. In
FY 2024-25, the Company collected and sustainably managed 76,000 tonnes of plastic waste
across the Country. The amount of plastic waste managed exceeded the amount of plastic
packaging utilised by ITC during the year, enabling the Company to maintain the milestone of
Plastic Neutrality.
More than 99% of the solid waste generated in ITC's operations including plastic waste is sent
for recycling.
E-waste Not Applicable
Hazardous Not Applicable
waste
Other waste All ITC Units have established systems and procedures to ensure that waste is disposed through
authorised agencies in line with applicable regulations.
Note: For further details, refer to the ‘Towards Circularity’ section of ITC Sustainability Report 2025.
4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether
the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution
Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
Yes, ITC is in compliance with the requirements of Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) under the Plastic Waste
Management Rules, 2016 (as amended).
Leadership Indicators
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing
industry) or for its services (for service industry)?
In line with the overall strategy to embed principles of sustainability into various stages of product or service life cycle, ITC
has been conducting Life Cycle Assessments (LCA) of its products and services with an objective of evaluating the impacts
and identifying areas for improvement. Over the years, LCA studies have been carried out for some of the Company’s key
products from Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business, Personal Care Products Business, Educational & Stationery,
Matches & Agarbatti and Branded Packaged Foods Businesses for identifying additional opportunities to reduce
environmental impact across the value chain under various scenarios as well as quantifying the footprint improvement
of planned product/packaging design interventions. These assessments have enabled identification of levers that have
led to improvements like more efficient packaging designs and enhanced loading efficiencies in transportation. Further,
packaging design teams across ITC businesses use a packaging-focussed Life Cycle Assessment-based tool to assess
the environmental impact of different packaging formats/designs for various FMCG products and sustainable packaging
solutions offered by Paperboards and Packaging Businesses. The insights from such assessments are considered during
new product development and design stages.
XX