[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 30-32

[PAGE 30]
Report on
Corporate Governance
The Directors present the Company’s Report on ITC’s Corporate Governance structure, systems and
Corporate Governance pursuant to the Securities and processes are based on two core principles:
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
(i) Management must have the executive freedom to
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’).
drive the enterprise forward without undue restraints,
ITC Limited has been one of the frontrunners in India and
to have put in place a formalised system of
(ii) This freedom of management should be exercised
Corporate Governance. Its governance framework enjoins
within a framework of effective accountability.
the highest standards of ethical and responsible conduct
ITC believes that any meaningful policy on Corporate
of business to create value for all stakeholders.
Governance must empower the executive management
THE COMPANY’S GOVERNANCE PHILOSOPHY of the Company. At the same time, Governance should
create a mechanism of checks and balances to ensure
ITC defines Corporate Governance as a systemic
that the decision-making powers vested in the executive
process by which companies are directed and controlled
management are used with care and responsibility to
to enhance their wealth-generating capacity. Since large
meet stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
corporations employ a vast quantum of societal resources,
ITC believes that the governance process should ensure From this definition and core principles of Corporate
that these resources are utilised in a manner that meets Governance emerge the cornerstones of ITC’s governance
stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations. philosophy, namely trusteeship, transparency, ethical
This belief is reflected in the Company’s deep commitment corporate citizenship, empowerment & accountability and
to contribute to the “triple bottom line”, namely conservation control. ITC believes that the practice of each of these
and development of the nation’s economic, social and creates the right corporate culture that fulfils the true
environmental capital. purpose of Corporate Governance.
The cornerstones of ITC’s governance philosophy are
trusteeship, transparency, ethical corporate citizenship,
empowerment & accountability and control.
12 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 31]
Report on Corporate Governance
Trusteeship recognises that large corporations which represent a coalition of interests, namely
those of the shareholders, other providers of capital, business associates and employees, have both
an economic and a social purpose, thereby casting the responsibility on the Board of Directors to
Trusteeship
protect and enhance shareholder value, as well as fulfil obligations to other stakeholders.
Inherent in the concept of trusteeship is the responsibility to ensure equity, namely that the rights of
all shareholders, large or small, are protected.
Transparency means explaining the Company’s policies and actions to those to whom it has
responsibilities. Externally, this means maximum appropriate disclosures without jeopardising the
Transparency Company’s strategic interests and internally, this means openness in the Company’s relationship
with its employees and in the conduct of its business. ITC believes transparency enhances
accountability.
Ethical Corporate Citizenship means setting exemplary standards of ethical behaviour,
Ethical
both internally within the organisation as well as in external relationships. ITC believes that
Corporate unethical behaviour corrupts organisational culture and undermines stakeholder value.
Citizenship Governance processes in ITC continuously reinforce and help realise the Company’s belief in ethical
corporate citizenship.
Empowerment is a process of unleashing creativity and innovation throughout the organisation by
truly vesting decision-making powers at the most appropriate levels and as close to the scene of action
Empowerment
as feasible, thereby helping actualise the potential of its employees. Empowerment is an essential
&
concomitant of ITC’s first core principle of governance that management must have the freedom to
Accountability
drive the enterprise forward. ITC believes that empowerment combined with accountability provides
an impetus to performance and improves effectiveness, thereby enhancing shareholder value.
Control ensures that freedom of management is exercised within a framework of checks and
balances, and is designed to prevent misuse of power, facilitate timely management of change and
Control ensure effective management of risks. ITC believes that control is a necessary concomitant of its
second core principle of governance that freedom of management should be exercised within a
framework of effective accountability.
THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE (b) Strategic management of the Company, uncluttered
The practice of Corporate Governance in ITC takes place by the day-to-day tasks of executive management,
at three interlinked levels: remains focused and energised; and
Strategic supervision by the Board of Directors (c) E xecutive management of the divisional business, free
Strategic management by the Corporate Management
from collective strategic responsibilities for ITC as
Committee
a whole, remains focused on enhancing the quality,
Executive management by the Divisional Chief Executive
assisted by the Divisional efficiency and effectiveness of the business to achieve
Management Committee
best-in-class performance.
The three-tier governance structure ensures that:
The core roles of the key entities flow from this structure.
(a) S trategic supervision (on behalf of the Shareholders), being
These roles, in turn, determine the core responsibilities
free from involvement in the task of strategic management
of each entity. In order to discharge such responsibilities,
of the Company, can be conducted with objectivity,
thereby sharpening accountability of management; each entity is empowered formally with requisite powers.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 13

[PAGE 32]
Report on Corporate Governance
The structure, processes and practices of governance Chairman: The Chairman is the Chief Executive of the
are designed to support effective management of multiple Company. He is the Chairman of the Board and the CMC
businesses while retaining focus on each one of them. and also presides over General Meetings of Shareholders.
His primary role is to provide leadership to the Board and
The Governance Document that sets out the
the CMC for realising Company goals in accordance with
structure, policies and practices of governance is
the charter approved by the Board. He is responsible,
available on the Company’s corporate website at
inter alia, for the working of the Board and the CMC, for
https://www.itcportal.com/governance-document .
ensuring that all relevant issues are on the agenda and
that all Directors and CMC Members are enabled and
ROLES OF VARIOUS ENTITIES
encouraged to play a full part in the activities of the Board
Board of Directors (‘Board’): The primary role of the Board
and the CMC, respectively. He keeps the Board informed
is that of trusteeship to protect and enhance shareholder on all matters of importance. He is also responsible for
value through strategic supervision of ITC and its balance of membership of the Board, subject to Board and
wholly owned subsidiaries. As trustees, the Board ensures Shareholder approvals.
that the Company has clear goals aligned to shareholder
Non-Executive Director: Non-Executive Directors, including
value and its growth. The Board sets strategic goals and
Independent Directors, play a critical role in imparting
seeks accountability for their fulfilment. The Board also balance to the Board processes by bringing independent
provides direction and exercises appropriate control to judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources,
ensure that the Company is managed in a manner that standards of Company conduct etc.
fulfils stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
Executive Director: The Executive Director assists
The Board, as part and parcel of its functioning, annually
the Board in realising its role of strategic supervision of
reviews its role and also evaluates its performance and the Company in pursuit of its purpose and goals. As a
that of the Board Committees & the Directors. member of the CMC, an Executive Director contributes
to the strategic management of the Company’s
Board Committees: The roles of the Board Committees
businesses within Board approved direction / framework.
are determined by the Board from time to time, synopsis
An Executive Director accountable to the Board for a
of which is provided under the heading ‘Committees
business assumes overall responsibility for its strategic
of the Board’.
management, including governance processes and
Corporate Management Committee (‘CMC’): The primary top management effectiveness. Similarly, as Director
role of the CMC is strategic management of the Company’s accountable to the Board for a corporate function, the
businesses within Board approved direction / framework overall strategic responsibility for its performance forms
and realisation of Company goals. The CMC also part of the Executive Director’s role. In the context of
assesses the performance of the businesses and allocates the multi-business character of the Company, an
resources, and operates under the strategic supervision Executive Director is in the nature of a Managing Director
of the Board. for those businesses and functions reporting to him.
CMC Member: The CMC Member contributes to the
Divisional Management Committee (‘DMC’): The primary
strategic management of the Company’s businesses within
role of the DMC is executive management of the business
Board approved direction / framework. A CMC Member
to realise tactical and strategic objectives in accordance
accountable for a business assumes responsibility for its
with the Board approved Business Plan.
strategic management, including governance processes
The Executive Committee for a Business Vertical within the and top management effectiveness. Similarly, where
Division is responsible to deliver comprehensive business accountable for a corporate function, the overall strategic
results under the overall direction and supervision of the responsibility for its performance forms part of the
Divisional Chief Executive supported by the DMC. CMC Member’s role.
14 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025