[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 141-143

[PAGE 141]
Sanitation: Promote a hygienic environment through prevention of open defecation and reduce incidence of
waterborne diseases. The focus of the intervention is on enhancing awareness and impacting behaviour
change on Water, Sanitation & Hygiene (WASH). Also, facilitate health impacting social and civic infrastructure
initiatives like improved sanitation and hygiene in the neighbourhood of the Company’s catchments.
Poverty Alleviation: Support the needy and poor through interventions that enable income diversification &
generation and also provide access to basic needs like clothing, food, etc., as needed.
ii. Promoting Education, Vocational Skills and Livelihood Enhancement (Schedule VII – ii):
Education: Provide children with access to education including Early Child Care Education with focus on
enrolment, learning retention, foundational skills and improved pedagogy. Also, work with government to
enhance capacities of institutions like Anganwadis.
Skills: Build and upgrade skills of youth with the emerging needs of the job market across sectors as also
entrepreneurial opportunities.
On-farm and Off-farm livelihoods: Enhance incomes of farmers and their families by widening income
generation opportunities through social and agro-forestry, fruit plantations and livestock development covering
both large and small ruminants, including poultry and fisheries. Also, facilitate capability building through
comprehensive package of extension services.
iii. Economic Empowerment of Women (Schedule VII – iii):
Provide a range of gainful employment and individual & group entrepreneurial opportunities to women by
empowerment and capacity building programmes, strengthening digital and financial literacy, and also providing
access to loans, grants, insurance & social security.
iv. Ensuring Environmental Sustainability (Schedule VII – iv):
Water Stewardship: Promote local management of water resources by facilitating community-based
participation in planning & executing watershed projects and soil & moisture conservation, river-basin level
interventions, and also identifying & enabling extensive use of water efficient practices in agriculture & urban
catchments and use of treated water.
Biodiversity: Strengthen eco-system services provided by nature including provisioning and regulatory
services focussed on restoring commons and mangroves.
CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development: Enable other businesses / organisations in India
to create enduring value on a sustainable basis by embedding the imperatives of sustainable development in
their strategies & processes.
v. Protection of National Heritage, Art & Culture (Schedule VII – v):
Revive and restore vanishing musical sub-genres by enlisting the goodwill of some of the finest musicians
through institutions like the ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), which was established in 1977 as an
embodiment of the Company’s sustained commitment to a priceless national heritage.
vi. Training to promote rural sports, nationally recognised sports, paralympic sports and Olympic sports
(Schedule VII – vii):
Promote sports for the holistic development of children by working closely with schools.
vii. Research in science, technology, engineering and medicine aimed at promoting Sustainable Development Goals
(Schedule VII – ix-b):
Leverage the technical expertise of premier institutions through partnerships and support innovation and R&D
activities in the areas of science, technology, engineering, environment, agriculture and health aimed at promoting
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
viii. Rural Development (Schedule VII – x):
Sustainable and Climate Smart Agriculture: Introduce advanced knowledge & technologies through package
of practices, increase awareness of farmers on optimum use of natural resources in order to increase farm
incomes, minimise cost of cultivation, reduce emissions and make agriculture resilient to increasing climate
challenges.
Knowledge Empowerment: Enable farmers and farmer collectives to make informed choices by providing
relevant and real-time information on local weather reports, customised knowledge & best practices on
farming and farm management, commodity prices, market linkages and risk management.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 123

[PAGE 142]
Institutional Support: Encourage sustainable agricultural practices through various extension platforms to
enable access to relevant farm mechanisation technologies & implements, as also institutional support
mechanisms and linkages to government schemes, especially for small farm holdings, in order to enhance
farm productivity and farm-based incomes.
ix. Disaster Assistance (Schedule VII – xii):
Provide relief especially to the poor and vulnerable sections of society who face severe disruption to their
livelihoods in the event of disasters and calamities.
2. Composition of the CSR and Sustainability Committee as on 31st March, 2025:
Sl. Name of Director Designation / Nature of Number of Number of
No. Directorship meetings of CSR meetings of CSR
and Sustainability and Sustainability
Committee held Committee attended
during the year during the year
1. S. Puri (Chairman of the Chairman & Managing Director 3
Committee)
2. C. K. Mishra 1 Independent Director N.A.
3. S. Mohanty 2 Non-Executive Director N.A.
4. S. Mukherjee 1 Independent Director 3 N.A.
5. A. Pande 3 Non-Executive Director 1
6. S. Panray Non-Executive Director 3
7. N. Rao Independent Director 1
8. A. Singh 4 Non-Executive Director 3
1 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 27th October, 2024.
2 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 1st January, 2025.
3 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 27th July, 2024.
4 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024.
3. Provide the web-link(s) where composition of the CSR and Sustainability Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects
approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Company: https://www.itcportal.com/sustainability/corporate-
social-responsibility.aspx
4. Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of
sub-rule (3) of Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable:
Executive Summary – Impact Assessment of ITC’s CSR Programmes for the financial year 2024-25
Brief Description ITC implements its CSR Programmes across the country under a Two Horizon approach
aimed at holistic development of communities.
Thematic Areas / The specific themes covered under the Two Horizon approach include:
Programmes Horizon – I: Creating Sustainable livelihoods for today
Water Stewardship
Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA)
On-Farm Livelihood Diversification: Social Forestry
Off-Farm Livelihood Diversification: Livestock Development
Horizon – II: Creating Capabilities for Tomorrow
Support to Education
Skilling of Youth
Public Health: Sanitation and Waste Management
Public Health: Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition (MCHN)
Women Empowerment: Targeted Hardcore Poor (THP) Programme and Financial
Literacy Programme
124 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 143]
Projects Covered 60 projects having budget of more than ` 1 crore each during the financial year 2022-23
were grouped under nine thematic interventions and were then taken up for impact
assessment. The purpose of these assessments was to assess the impact of the projects
and incorporate the learnings from the findings into the programmes as relevant.
Projects Duration FY 2022-23
States The assessments covered interventions in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar,
Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab,
Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.
Impact Assessment These impact assessments were done by the following 12 external agencies selected
Agencies through competitive bidding process, and assigned specific projects / geographies for
assessment:
Blue Sky Sustainable Business, Bengaluru
Catalyst Management Services Private Limited, Bengaluru
CRISIL Limited, Mumbai
Ingrain Technologies, Hyderabad
Kantar, Bengaluru
Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP, Gurugram
Renalysis Consultants Private Limited, Ahmedabad
Sambodhi Research and Communications Private Limited, Noida
SoStakes Services Private Limited, Bengaluru
Surge Impact Foundation, Hyderabad
Sutra Consulting Private Limited, Bhubaneswar
Synergy Technofin Private Limited, New Delhi
Period of Study FY 2024-25
Methodology The agencies took up studies through mixed method approach covering quantitative and
qualitative data collection. A statistically significant sample size was covered under each
project. In the aggregate, over 15,000 samples were covered across interventions and
control areas.
The major impacts recorded by the impact studies are as follows –
Horizon – I
Overall, the projects assessed under Horizon - I were found to be relevant, effective, efficient and sustainable. They
have not only contributed to higher incomes for farmers, but also enabled climate adaptation and conservation of
natural resources.
Water Stewardship:
The study conducted in Telangana revealed that access to irrigation resulted in increase in gross cropped area
by up to 8% over baseline and improved yields because of application of tank silt in field. Due to increased
availability of water, around 20% of programme farmers also engaged in fish cultivation, resulting in their earnings
increasing by over 15%.
Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA):
In Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, study revealed that compared to control, yield of Paddy and
Maize was 21% and 16% higher respectively for programme farmers, while cultivation costs was 24% less in
Paddy. Cultivation costs for Maize remained same over control.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 125