[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 65-67

[PAGE 65]
Report of the Board of Directors
The Business also strengthened its presence in focus Taxes on cigarettes in India remain one of the highest in
markets with the launch of several differentiated offerings the world as depicted in the chart:
across segments leveraging its institutional strengths,
demonstrating agility in responding to evolving market
Tax per 2000 Cigarettes as a percentage of Per Capita GDP
dynamics. Several innovative variants have been
introduced recently under the ‘Classic’, ‘Gold Flake’, USA 0.40%
Japan 0.80%
‘American Club’ and ‘Flake’ trademarks amongst others.
China 1.00%
Germany 1.03%
Your Company has further strengthened its direct reach in
Russia 1.13%
target markets across trade channels and also augmented Canada 1.19%
the stockist network to service rural and semi-urban Pakistan 1.50%
Malaysia 1.68%
markets efficiently. Your Company’s investments towards
Thailand 2.11%
building a differentiated portfolio coupled with agile and UK 2.30%
Australia 2.75%
last mile focused micro market execution capabilities
India 5.71%
augur well for the future.
Source: Tax data – WHO Global Health Observatory, 2024 (Cigarette tax data for 2022);
Globally, cigarettes constitute the dominant form of Per Capita GDP – World Bank (Data for the year 2022)
tobacco use. In the Indian context, tobacco use comprises
a diverse range of chewing and smoking formats that are
Taxes on cigarettes in India are multiple times higher than
available at multiple price points consequent to punitive
in developed countries viz. 14x of USA, 7x of Japan, 6x of
and discriminatory taxation on cigarettes. While India
Germany and so on. Further, the same is also substantially
is the world’s second largest consumer of tobacco,
higher than that in neighbouring countries.
legal cigarettes constitute only 10% of overall tobacco
consumption in India, as against a global average of 90%.
It may also be noted that India’s per capita cigarette
It is pertinent to note that India accounts for less than 2%
consumption is amongst the lowest in the world and is
of global cigarette consumption despite having 18% of the
significantly lower compared to that of China, Japan, USA,
world’s population - making India’s per capita cigarette
UK and even neighbouring countries such as Bangladesh
consumption amongst the lowest in the world.
and Pakistan.
Over the years, high and discriminatory taxes on
Cigarettes, while aimed at reducing consumption, have
Per Capita Consumption of Cigarettes
had unintended consequences of fuelling the growth of
smuggled and domestically manufactured tax-evaded
No. of Cigarettes per annum
cigarettes, causing a shift to other lightly taxed/tax-evaded 1971
forms of tobacco products, comprising illicit cigarettes, bidi,
chewing tobacco, gutkha, zarda, snuff, etc. Consequently,
1133
while the share of legal cigarettes in total tobacco 898 897
consumption has declined from 21% in 1981-82 to a
468
394
mere 10%, aggregate tobacco consumption in the country
90
has increased over the same period. Despite accounting
"
China Japan Bangladesh USA UK Pakistan India
for 1/10th of the tobacco consumed in the country,
duty-paid cigarettes contribute more than 4/5th of the
Source: The Tobacco Atlas – 7th Edition, 2022
revenue generated from the tobacco sector.
Over the years, high and discriminatory taxes on Cigarettes, while aimed at reducing consumption,
have had unintended consequences of fuelling the growth of smuggled and domestically
manufactured tax-evaded cigarettes, causing a shift to other lightly taxed/tax-evaded forms of
tobacco products, comprising illicit cigarettes, bidi, chewing tobacco, gutkha, zarda, snuff, etc.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 47

[PAGE 66]
Report of the Board of Directors
Historically, steep increases in taxation have adversely about 68% 4 of the total tobacco consumed in the country
impacted tax collections and legal cigarette volumes, while remains outside the tax net.
a stable tax regime has led to buoyancy in tax collections
The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI), in its
as evidenced in the table below:
report “Smuggling in India 2023-24” acknowledges the
high incidence of taxes in India providing opportunities
Period Increase in Increase in
Tax Rate Tax Revenue for illicit trade of cigarettes. The report states: “Cigarette
Collection smuggling in India has become a growing concern, posing
serious challenges to the public health, the economy, and
FY 2012-13 to FY 2016-17 (CAGR) 15.7% 4.7%
law enforcement. With high domestic taxes and import
Apr 2018 to Jan 2020 over Jul 2017
duties on tobacco products, intended to curb tobacco
to Mar 2018 – 10.2%
consumption and safeguard public health, smuggling
Oct 2020 to Mar 2021 over Aug has become a profitable venture of criminal networks.
2019 to Jan 2020 13.0% 1.8%
The illegal trade in cigarette not only undermines
FY 2020-21 to 2022-23 (CAGR) – 16.0% government policies aimed at reducing tobacco use but
also results in significant revenue loss”.
Punitive taxes on the legal cigarette industry in earlier
Tobacco control measures in India have ranked amongst
years have resulted in rapid growth of illicit cigarette
the most stringent in the world from the time of enactment
trade – making India the 4th largest illicit cigarette market
of the Cigarettes (Regulation of Production, Supply and
globally according to Euromonitor estimates. Over the
Distribution) Act, 1975, to the present. India is also one of
years, this has created attractive tax arbitrage opportunities
the few countries where tobacco products are regulated
for unscrupulous players indulging in illicit cigarette trade
across the value chain – from their manufacture to sale to
accounting for about 1/3rd of the legal industry.
consumers. The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products
During the year, there were extensive media reports
(Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade
on the multitude of cases of evasion of taxes/duties
and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act,
by dealers in illicit cigarettes which were unearthed by
2003 (COTPA) requires cigarette packages to display
raids conducted by Directorate of Revenue Intelligence
the statutorily mandated pictorial and textual warnings
(DRI) and other enforcement agencies. ‘Illicit markets:
covering 85% of the surface area of the packet - one of
A Threat to Our National Interests’, a study published
the largest in the world.
by FICCI-TARI in September 2022, noted that
It is pertinent to note that smuggled international brands
“The consumption of illegal cigarettes in India has
of cigarettes do not bear any of the pictorial or textual
increased, signalling a shift from legal products to cheaper
warnings mandated by Indian laws or, bear much smaller
substitutes or illicit products, which have no or little tax
pictorial/textual warnings as per the tobacco laws of the
element in them. When taxes are raised beyond a certain
countries from where these cigarettes originate. As reported
optimum level, consumers gravitate towards cheaper
in prior years, findings from research conducted by
alternatives or illicit supplies, which are normally smuggled
IMRB International, an independent market research
or tax evaded goods”. It is estimated that illicit trade
organisation, show that the lack of pictorial warnings on
causes an annual revenue loss of appx. ` 21000 crores
to the Exchequer. With respect to other tobacco
4 Report on the impact of current tax framework on the tobacco sector in India
products as well, the revenue losses are significant since and suggestions for its improvement - 2014, by ASSOCHAM and KPMG.
Punitive taxes on the legal cigarette industry in earlier years have resulted
in rapid growth of illicit cigarette trade – making India the 4th largest illicit cigarette
market globally according to Euromonitor estimates. It is estimated that illicit trade
causes an annual revenue loss of appx. ` 21000 crores to the Exchequer.
48 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 67]
Report of the Board of Directors
packets of smuggled international brands of cigarettes The Honourable Karnataka High Court, by its judgement
or their diminutive size creates a perception in the in December, 2017, held the 85% pictorial warnings to
consumers’ mind that these illicit cigarettes are ‘safer’ than be factually incorrect and unconstitutional. Upon Special
domestic duty-paid cigarettes that carry the 85% pictorial Leave Petitions filed by the Government and others, the
warnings. The combination of low prices to consumers Honourable Supreme Court has stayed the judgment
due to tax evasion and the misleading perception created of the High Court. The cases are pending before the
by the absence of statutory pictorial warnings provides Honourable Supreme Court.
significant buoyancy to illicit cigarette volumes.
The extremely stringent regulations along with the
India is among the top three tobacco growing countries discriminatory and steep taxation on cigarettes have had
in the world. Tobacco plays a significant role in the Indian numerous negative, albeit unintended repercussions.
economy on account of its considerable contribution to the These include:
agricultural, industrial and export sectors 5. Illicit cigarette
– rapid growth in illicit cigarette volumes, which resulted
trade also has a deleterious impact on farmers and farm
in sub-optimisation of the revenue potential of the
workers engaged in the tobacco value chain.
tobacco sector and significant loss to the Exchequer.
It may be noted that several major tobacco producing It is estimated that on account of illicit cigarettes alone,
countries, including the USA, have established regulatory revenue loss to the Government is appx. ` 21000 crores
frameworks taking into consideration the economic per annum.
interests of their tobacco farmers. The punitive and
– widespread availability of illicit cigarettes and other
discriminatory taxation & regulatory regime on cigarettes
tobacco products of dubious quality and hygiene
in India over the years, has adversely affected the
to consumers at extremely affordable prices. As a
livelihood of Indian tobacco farmers with corresponding
result, despite accounting for 1/10th of the tobacco
gains to those countries that have opted for moderate
consumed in the country, duty-paid cigarettes
and equitable tobacco regulations. These developments
contribute more than 4/5th of the revenue generated
coupled with lower export incentives in India and relative
from the tobacco sector.
weakness of currencies in certain competing geographies
– a large component of tobacco consumption in the
have, in the past, had a debilitating impact on millions of
country, aggregating around 68%, remaining outside
livelihoods, dependent on the tobacco value chain in India.
the tax net.
However, recent stability in taxes on cigarettes backed by
deterrent actions of enforcement agencies has enabled – persistent negative impact on the livelihood of tobacco
the legal cigarette industry to partially combat illicit trade farmers and others dependent on tobacco. Studies
and claw back volumes, thereby improving demand for by the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI)
Indian tobaccos. indicate that on account of agro-climatic conditions,
there is no equally remunerative alternate crop that
As reported in earlier years, your Company and several
can be grown in the FCV tobacco growing regions of
other stakeholders had challenged the validity of the
the country.
pictorial and textual warning covering 85% of the
surface area of the packet prescribed under COTPA. Your Company continues to engage with policy makers for
a framework of pragmatic, equitable, non-discriminatory,
5 Report on Tobacco Control in India, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, GoI,
evidence-based regulations and taxation policies that
2004 (Jointly supported by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, USA
and the World Health Organisation). balance the economic imperatives of the country and
Recent stability in taxes on cigarettes backed by deterrent actions of
enforcement agencies has enabled the legal cigarette industry to
partially combat illicit trade and claw back volumes,
thereby improving demand for Indian tobaccos.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 49