[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 103-105

[PAGE 103]
Report of the Board of Directors
the enterprise at all times and together with the Strategy financial controls was observed. Nonetheless, your
of Organisation, Planning & Review Processes and the Company recognises that any internal control framework,
Risk Management Framework provide the foundation no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations and
for Internal Financial Controls with reference to your accordingly, regular audit and review processes ensure
Company’s Financial Statements. that such systems are reinforced on an ongoing basis.
Such Financial Statements are prepared on the basis
RISK MANAGEMENT
of the Material Accounting Policies that are carefully
As a diversified enterprise, your Company continues
selected by management and approved by the
to focus on a system-based approach to business risk
Audit Committee and the Board. These Policies are
management. The management of risk is embedded
supported by the Corporate Accounting and Systems
in the corporate strategies of developing a portfolio of
Policies that apply to the entity as a whole to implement
world-class businesses that best match organisational
the tenets of Corporate Governance and Material
capability with opportunities in domestic and international
Accounting Policies uniformly across your Company.
markets, developing capabilities and competencies for
The Accounting Policies are reviewed and updated from
the future in order to enhance competitiveness and win
time to time. These, in turn, are supported by a set of
in the markets of tomorrow. Accordingly, management of
Divisional policies and Standard Operating Procedures
risk has always been an integral part of your Company’s
(SOPs) that have been established for individual
‘Strategy of Organisation’ and straddles its planning,
Businesses.
execution and reporting systems & processes.
Your Company uses Enterprise Resource Planning Backed by strong internal control systems, the current
(ERP) systems as a business enabler and also to Risk Management Framework consists of the following
maintain its books of accounts. The SOPs, in tandem key elements:
with transactional controls built into the ERP systems,
– The Corporate Governance Policy, approved
ensure appropriate segregation of duties, tiered approval
by the Board, clearly lays down the roles and
mechanisms and maintenance of supporting records.
responsibilities of the various entities in relation to
The Information Management Policy reinforces the
risk management covering a range of responsibilities,
control environment. The systems, SOPs and controls
from the strategic to the operational. These role
are reviewed by Divisional management and audited by
definitions, inter alia, provide the foundation for
Internal Audit, whose findings and recommendations are
appropriate risk management procedures, their
reviewed by the Audit Committee and tracked through till
effective implementation across your Company
implementation.
and independent monitoring and reporting by
Your Company has in place adequate internal financial Internal Audit.
controls with reference to the Financial Statements.
– The Risk Management Committee, constituted
These have been designed to provide reasonable
by the Board, monitors and reviews the strategic
assurance with regard to recording and providing reliable
risk management plans of your Company as a whole
financial information; complying with applicable statutes;
and provides necessary directions on the same.
safeguarding assets from unauthorised use; ensuring that
– The Corporate Risk Management Cell, through
transactions are carried out with adequate authorisation
focused interactions with Businesses, facilitates
and complying with Corporate Policies and Processes.
the identification and prioritisation of strategic and
Such controls have been assessed during the year, after
operational risks, development of appropriate
taking into consideration the essential components of
mitigation strategies and conducts periodic reviews of
internal controls stated in the Guidance Note on Audit
the progress on the management of identified risks.
of Internal Financial Controls over Financial Reporting
issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of – A combination of centrally issued policies and
India. Based on the results of such assessment carried Business-specific procedures bring robustness to the
out by management, no reportable material weakness or process of ensuring that business risks are effectively
significant deficiency in the design or operation of internal addressed.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 85

[PAGE 104]
Report of the Board of Directors
– Appropriate structures are in place to proactively Recognising Digital as a megatrend shaping the future,
monitor and manage the inherent risks in businesses your Company remains focused on building a dynamic
with unique or relatively high risk profiles. ‘Future-Tech’ enterprise powered by advanced digital
technologies and infrastructure across the value chain.
– Foreign currency exposures continue to be managed
Your Company’s digital transformation journey is also
within the framework of the Forex Manual.
resulting in changes in its risk profile marked by a
– A strong and independent Internal Audit function at heightened cyber threat environment. The cybersecurity
the Corporate level carries out risk focused audits
landscape is constantly evolving, characterised by
across all Businesses, enabling identification of areas
a diverse array of threats that target individuals,
where risk management processes may need to be
organisations, and critical infrastructure. Cybercriminals
strengthened. The Audit Committee of the Board
are employing increasingly sophisticated tactics, such as
reviews Internal Audit findings and provides strategic
ransomware, phishing and advanced persistent threats,
guidance on internal controls. The Audit Compliance
to exploit vulnerabilities and gain unauthorised access to
Review Committee closely monitors the internal
sensitive data.
control environment within your Company including
Your Company has a multi-tiered cybersecurity defence
implementation of the action plans emerging out of
strategy that includes firewalls, antivirus and anti-malware
internal audit findings.
systems to prevent, detect and respond to cyber incidents.
– At the Business level, Divisional Auditors continuously
These defence mechanisms are implemented at various
verify compliance with laid down policies and
access and data processing points, including endpoints,
procedures and help plug control gaps by assisting
data centres, network perimeters and cloud instances.
operating management in the formulation of control
To further enhance user awareness, your Company has
procedures.
established a comprehensive digital cybersecurity training
– A robust and comprehensive framework of strategic program for all employees.
planning and performance management ensures
The Cyber Security Committee of your Company, chaired
realisation of business objectives based on effective
by the Chief Digital and Information Officer (CDIO),
strategy implementation. The annual planning
establishes best practices, monitors the cybersecurity
exercise requires all Businesses to clearly identify
posture, and defines strategic priorities to ensure secure
their top risks and set out a mitigation plan with
and reliable services in a rapidly evolving digital landscape.
agreed timelines and accountabilities. Businesses
Your Company’s cybersecurity practices are guided by
are required to confirm periodically that all relevant
several international frameworks and standards, such as
risks have been identified, assessed, evaluated and
NIST and ISO 27001.
that appropriate mitigation measures have been
implemented. During the year, your Company operationalised the
Advanced Cyber Security Operations Centre (SOC)
Your Company endeavours to continuously sharpen
equipped with state-of-the-art capabilities including
its Risk Management systems and processes in
AI-driven threat intelligence from multiple sources.
line with a rapidly changing business environment.
Tabletop exercises have been conducted to improve
All Businesses of your Company have adopted the
incident response capabilities for the Cyber Security
ISO 31000 Risk Management Standard; risk management
Incident Response team, under the leadership of the Chief
systems and processes prevalent in the Businesses have
Information Security Officer (CISO). Further, the SOC
been independently assessed to be compliant with the
is being augmented with behavioural anomaly detection
same. The centrally anchored initiative of conducting
capabilities to enhance threat detection.
independent external reviews of key business processes
with high ‘value at risk’ continued during the year. In response to the progressive migration of workloads
These interventions continue to provide further assurance to the Cloud, your Company has adopted a zero trust
on the robustness of risk management practices prevalent architecture and has established a digital-ready, cloud-
in your Company. secure wide area network - ITC Digibahn. This network
86 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 105]
Report of the Board of Directors
ensures that all authorised users can access fast, reliable, crucial for long-term sustainability of its business and is
and secure connections from any location, on any device, committed to conducting its operations in a manner that
at any time. Your Company is also upgrading both endpoint protects, conserves and enriches biodiversity in line with
and email security by adopting best-in-class technologies the Board-approved Policies on Biodiversity Conservation
to enhance protection against external threats. and Deforestation.
The growing integration and convergence of Information Your Company sources several commodities for use as
Technology (IT) and Operational Technology (OT) within inputs in its Businesses and engages in agri-commodity
Industrial Control Systems significantly increases the risk of trading as part of its Agri Business. In respect of
cyber-attacks. Accordingly, a comprehensive OT Security commodities sourced for use as inputs in its Businesses,
policy has been established across all Businesses and an your Company has well laid out strategies to manage
assessment of IT and OT security maturity is conducted at risks arising out of the inherent price volatility associated
least once in two years. with such commodities. This includes robust mechanisms
for monitoring market dynamics towards making informed
The use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is becoming
sourcing decisions, well defined inventory holding norms
increasingly prevalent in various business domains. In this
based on considerations such as seasonality and the
regard, your Company has adopted a range of security
strategic nature of the commodity concerned, long-term
best practices, including an approved list of generative
contracts with suppliers and continuous diversification
AI tools and platforms, a data management framework,
of the supplier base to secure supply of critical items
mandatory proof of concept (POC) requirements, data
at competitive costs. Multiple sourcing models, wide
privacy controls, ethical AI usage guidelines, and user
geographical spread, extensive sourcing and supply
awareness training.
chain network and associated infrastructure in key
India ranks among the most vulnerable countries in the
growing areas coupled with deep-rooted farmer linkages
world in terms of climate change impact. As part of its
and use of digital technologies ensure sourcing of high
Sustainability 2.0 vision, your Company is pursuing a
quality agri-commodities at competitive costs.
multi-pronged climate strategy that entails extensive
In respect of agri-commodity trading, your Company has
decarbonisation and building resilience against climate
a well-defined policy to manage risks associated with
risk across the value chain.
sourcing of such commodities. This includes:
Your Company’s low carbon growth approach focuses
on increasing the share of renewable energy, improving – segregation of duties and robust internal controls
through a system of checks and balances embedded
energy productivity, construction of green buildings,
greening logistics, optimising ‘distance-to-market’ and in the organisation and governance structure
promoting regenerative agriculture practices in agri-value – clearly defined limits for trading positions (long and
chains, thus enabling transition to a net zero economy. short) and net cash loss for specific commodities/
Simultaneously, your Company is actively working commodity groups
towards climate-proofing its operations and agricultural
– mitigation of price, liquidity and counter party risks
value chains by using state-of-the-art climate risk
through hedging on commodity exchanges (mainly
modelling techniques and developing site-specific risk
NCDEX) for certain commodities, as applicable.
mitigation strategies. Your Company’s approach towards
Correlation between prices prevailing in the physical
water stewardship is aligned with the Alliance for Water
market and those on the commodity exchange is
Stewardship Standard, a globally recognised framework
analysed regularly to ensure effectiveness of hedging
for assessing the efficacy of water management across
water stressed sites. Further, your Company recognises – robust monitoring and review mechanisms of net
that the preservation and nurturing of biodiversity is open positions and ‘value at risk’
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 87