[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 359-361

[PAGE 359]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
Section B: Management and Process Disclosures
The National Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) as brought out by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
advocates nine principles referred as P1-P9 as given below:
P1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is ethical, transparent
and accountable
P2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe
P3 Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains
P4 Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
P5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights
P6 Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment
P7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a manner that is
responsible and transparent
P8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development
P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner
Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Policy and Management Processes
1. a. Whether your entity’s Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
policy/policies cover each
ITC has a comprehensive set of Board-approved Policies that cover NGRBC principles (P1 to P9)
principle and its core
and the underlying core elements.
elements of the NGRBCs.
To achieve its Sustainability 2.0 vision, the Company continues to strengthen its management
(Yes/No)
approach which is guided by a comprehensive set of Sustainability Policies that are being
implemented across the organisation. The Company continues to strengthen the mechanisms
of engagement with key stakeholders, identification of material sustainability issues and
progressively monitoring and mitigating the impacts along the value chain of each Business.
The Company will continue to update these systems and processes in line with the evolving
disclosure standards and Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) requirements.
The overall responsibility for ensuring the implementation of Sustainability Policies resides
with the Divisional / Strategic Business Unit (SBU) Chief Executives and the Heads of Corporate
Functions who work with their respective management teams. Various committees designated
with specific responsibilities have also been constituted for operationalising these Policies.
The Sustainability Compliance Review Committee comprising senior and other members
of management has the overall responsibility to monitor and evaluate compliance with
these Policies.
The responsibility for implementation of ITC’s CSR Policy rests with the Corporate Social
Investments Programme (SIP) Team.
b. Has the policy been approved Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
by the Board? (Yes/No)
c. Web Link of the Policies, if
https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/index.aspx
available
2. Whether the entity has Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
translated the policy into
procedures. (Yes / No)
3. Do the enlisted policies Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Not Yes Yes
extend to your value chain Applicable
partners? (Yes/No)
4. Name of the national Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
and international codes/
- Food Safety OHSAS ISAE SA 8000: Social ISO 14001: NGRBC - ATNI
certifications/labels/
Management 18001/ 3000 Accountability, Environment Framework,
standards (e.g. Forest System (FSSC ISO 45001: United Nations Management FSSAI, BRCGS
Stewardship Council, 22000/ISO Occupational Guiding System, and Packaging
22000/HACCP)
Fairtrade, Rainforest Health Principles on Alliance Materials
Responsible
Alliance, Trustea) Supply Chain and Safety Business and for Water Global
standards (e.g. SA 8000, Certifications Management Human Rights, Stewardship Standard,
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted like Rainforest Systems Sustainable (AWS), LEED® HACCP, Sedex,
Alliance (RFA) Tobacco Certification NPOP, NOP,
by your entity and mapped
and Forest Programme, for Green Halal and
to each principle. Stewardship RFA, FSC® Building, Kosher
Council® LEED® Zero
(FSC®)
Carbon
For more information on Environment, Social, Occupational Health and Safety, Food Safety
Certifications and Sustainable Farming Certifications, refer to ‘Certifications’ section of ITC
Sustainability Report 2025.
XII

[PAGE 360]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
5. Specific commitments, goals In line with its Sustainability 2.0 agenda, ITC has set short to medium targets
and targets set by the entity with for key priority areas like climate change, water stewardship, plastic waste
defined timelines, if any. and circular economy, sustainable agriculture, biodiversity conservation and
sustainable livelihoods. In line with the above, ITC’s Businesses have targets for
6. Performance of the entity against Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) like specific energy consumption, specific
the specific commitments, goals greenhouse gas emissions, specific water intake and specific waste generation.
and targets along with reasons in In order to achieve these targets, all ITC Units have established management
case the same are not met. systems which entail regular monitoring of environmental KPIs, development of
an environmental management plan, and reviewing progress on a regular basis to
ensure that Businesses are on track with respect to the agreed roadmap.
For more information on annual performance against the Sustainability 2.0
targets, refer to ‘Sustainability 2.0 Ambitions’ section of ITC Sustainability
Report 2025.
Governance, Leadership and Oversight
7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related
challenges, targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)
Please refer to the ‘Chairman’s Message’ section in ITC Sustainability Report 2025
8. Details of the highest authority The CSR and Sustainability Committee of the Board, chaired by the Chairman
responsible for implementation of the Company, reviews and oversees implementation of the Sustainability
and oversight of the Business Policies of the Company on an annual basis. In addition, the CSR and
Responsibility policy (ies). Sustainability Committee and the Board of Directors also review the progress
of implementation of the Company’s CSR Programmes on a half-yearly basis.
The composition of the CSR and Sustainability Committee as on 31st March,
2025 is given below:
Sl. Name Of The Designation/Nature Din Of The
No. Director Of Directorship Director
1. S. Puri (Chairman of Chairman & Managing 00280529
the Committee) Director
2. C. K. Mishra Independent Director 02553126
3. S. Mohanty Non-Executive Director 08058830
4. S. Mukherjee Independent Director 03024803
5. A. Pande Non-Executive Director 10631871
6. S. Panray Non-Executive Director 09251023
7. N. Rao Independent Director 06954879
8. A. Singh Non-Executive Director 00060943
At the highest level, the Board of Directors of the Company has the primary role of
trusteeship to protect and enhance shareholder value through strategic supervision
of ITC. As trustees, the Board ensures that the Company has clear goals aligned to
shareholder value and its growth, and also in line with its Sustainability agenda.
The Corporate Management Committee (CMC) of the Company is the management
body responsible for compliance with the Sustainability Policies of the Company.
The CMC has constituted the Sustainability Compliance Review Committee (SCRC),
which monitors and evaluates compliance with these Policies and places a quarterly
report thereon for review by the CMC.
The Chief Executives of Divisions / Strategic Business Units (SBUs), through
members of the respective Management Committees, and Heads of Corporate
Functions are responsible for ensuring implementation of the Sustainability Policies
of the Company within their respective Division / SBU / Corporate Function and
communication of these Policies to the employees.
In addition, the Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) of the Company is responsible for
scanning the external environment for evolving sustainability trends and regulations,
monitoring the progress on sustainability targets and facilitating the Businesses &
Corporate Functions in implementing the sustainability initiatives.
The CSO reports to the Group Head of Sustainability who is also a CMC Member
and the Chairman of the SCRC. The CSO provides progress reportbacks on the
Company’s sustainability initiatives to the senior leadership of the Company.
XIII

[PAGE 361]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
9. Does the entity have Yes, as stated under (8) above, the CSR and Sustainability Committee of the Board reviews,
a specified Committee monitors and provides strategic direction to the Company’s CSR and sustainability
of the Board/ Director practices towards fulfilling its Triple Bottom Line objectives. The Committee seeks
responsible for decision to guide the Company in crafting unique models to support creation of sustainable
making on sustainability livelihoods together with environmental re-generation.
related issues? (Yes The CSR and Sustainability Committee of the Board also reviews the Business
/ No). If yes, provide Responsibility and Sustainability Report of the Company and recommends the same to
details. the Board for adoption, and approves the Sustainability Report of the Company.
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Subject for Review Indicate whether review was undertaken by Frequency
Director / Committee of the Board/ Any other (Annually/ Half yearly/ Quarterly/
Committee Any other – please specify)
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
Performance against Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other
above policies and follow Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
up action
On a On a On a On a On a On a On a On a On a
quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly
basis basis basis basis basis basis basis basis basis
Compliance with Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other Any other
statutory requirements Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee
of relevance to the
principles, and, On a On a On a On a On a On a On a On a On a
rectification of any quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly quarterly
non-compliances basis basis basis basis basis basis basis basis basis
The Company is in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations.
11. Has the entity carried • ITC has a robust review mechanism supported by both external and internal audits
out independent covering the implementation of key policies.
assessment/
• ITC has been obtaining independent third-party assurance for its Sustainability
evaluation of the
Reports since 2004. In the reporting year, authenticity of the data and systems
working of its policies
disclosed in the Sustainability Report 2025 has been assured by an independent
by an external
third-party assurance provider; the assurance has been provided as per the
agency? (Yes/No). If
International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 at the ‘Reasonable
yes, provide name of
Assurance’ level.
the agency.
• ITC has computed its Green House Gas (GHG) inventory, including GHG emissions,
biogenic emissions and GHG removals, in accordance with ISO 14064:2018; the
GHG inventory of FY 2024-25 has been verified by an independent third-party
assurance provider.
• In addition to the above, relevant third-party assessments and certifications are
conducted across Business Units periodically.
XIV