[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 227-229

[PAGE 227]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
32. Financial Instruments and Related Disclosures (Contd.)
Reconciliation of fair value movement of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and categorised
within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy is as under:
(` in Crores)
31st March, 2025 31st March, 2024
Financial Financial Financial Financial Financial Financial
Assets Assets Liabilities Assets Assets Liabilities
at FVTPL at FVTOCI at FVTPL at FVTPL at FVTOCI at FVTPL
Opening Balance 39.34 0.05 12.65 39.34 0.05 12.65
Additions during the year 3.00 – – – – –
Sale / Transfer / Settlement during the year – – – – – –
Gain / (Loss) during the year recognised in
Other Income (9.37) – – – – –
Gain / (Loss) during the year recognised in
Other Comprehensive Income – – – – – –
Closing Balance 32.97 0.05 12.65 39.34 0.05 12.65
Fair value hierarchy
Fair value of the financial instruments is classified in various fair value hierarchies based on the following three levels:
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active market or Net Asset Value (NAV) for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted price included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as
prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined using market approach and valuation
techniques which maximize the use of observable market data and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If significant
inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
Derivatives are valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs such as foreign exchange spot rates and forward
rates at the end of the reporting period, yield curves, risk free rate of returns, volatility etc., as applicable. The fair value of investment in
Bonds / Debentures, Certificates of Deposit / Commercial Papers, Venture Capital Funds etc. and financial liabilities, where applicable,
is determined using market observable inputs such as quotes from market participants, value published by the issuer etc.
Level 3: Inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs).
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the fair value is determined using generally
accepted methodologies such as discounted cash flow analysis, with the most significant inputs being the discount rate that
reflects the credit risk of counterparty.
The fair value of trade receivables, trade payables and other current financial assets and liabilities is considered to be equal to the
carrying amounts of these items due to their short – term nature. Where such items are non-current in nature, the same has been
classified as Level 3 and fair value determined using discounted cash flow basis. Similarly, unquoted equity instruments where
most recent information to measure fair value is insufficient, or if there is a wide range of possible fair value measurements, cost
has been considered as best estimate of fair value.
There has been no change in the valuation methodology for Level 3 inputs during the year. The Company has not classified any
material financial instruments under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The sensitivity of change in the unobservable inputs used
in fair valuation of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities does not have a significant impact on their value. There were no transfers
between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year.
In terms of our report attached On behalf of the Board
For S R B C & CO LLP S. PURI Chairman & Managing Director
Chartered Accountants (DIN : 00280529)
Firm Registration Number: 324982E / E300003
S. DUTTA Director & Chief Financial Officer
Arvind Sethi (DIN : 01804345)
Partner R. K. SINGHI Company Secretary
(Membership No.: 89802) (Membership No.: FCS 3770)
Kolkata, May 22, 2025
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 209

[PAGE 228]
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of ITC Limited
Report on the Audit of the Standalone Ind AS Financial Institute of Chartered Accountants of India together with
Statements the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit
of the financial statements under the provisions of the
Opinion
Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our
We have audited the accompanying standalone Ind AS
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
financial statements of ITC Limited (“the Company”),
requirements and the Code of Ethics. We believe that
which comprise the Balance Sheet as at March 31, 2025,
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
the Statement of Profit and Loss, including Other
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the
Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Cash Flows
standalone Ind AS financial statements.
and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the year
Key Audit Matters
then ended, and notes to the standalone Ind AS financial
statements, including a summary of material accounting Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional
policies and other explanatory information. judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
standalone Ind AS financial statements for the financial year
In our opinion and to the best of our information and
ended March 31, 2025. These matters were addressed in
according to the explanations given to us, the aforesaid
the context of our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial
standalone Ind AS financial statements give the information
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon,
required by the Companies Act, 2013, as amended
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
(“the Act”) in the manner so required and give a true
For each matter below, our description of how our audit
and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles
addressed the matter is provided in that context.
generally accepted in India, of the state of affairs of the
Company as at March 31, 2025, its profit including other We have determined the matters described below to be
comprehensive income, its cash flows and the changes in the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
equity for the year ended on that date. We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the standalone Ind
Basis for Opinion
AS financial statements section of our report, including in
We conducted our audit of the standalone Ind AS financial relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included
statements in accordance with the Standards on Auditing the performance of procedures designed to respond to
(SAs), as specified under section 143(10) of the Act. our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of
Our responsibilities under those Standards are further the standalone Ind AS financial statements. The results of
described in the ‘Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit our audit procedures, including the procedures performed
of the Standalone Ind AS Financial Statements’ section to address the matters below, provide the basis for our
of our report. We are independent of the Company audit opinion on the accompanying standalone Ind AS
in accordance with the ‘Code of Ethics’ issued by the financial statements.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue recognition
Revenue from the sale of goods (hereinafter referred Our audit procedures included the following:
to as “Revenue”) is recognised when the Company
Assessed the Company’s revenue recognition
performs its obligations to its customers and the amount accounting policies in line with Ind AS 115 (“Revenue
of revenue can be measured reliably and recovery from Contracts with Customers”) and tested thereof.
of the consideration is probable. The timing of such
Evaluated the integrity of the general information
recognition in case of sale of goods is when the control
and technology control environment and testing the
over the same is transferred to the customer, which is
operating effectiveness of key IT application controls
mainly upon delivery.
over recognition of revenue.
The timing of revenue recognition is relevant to Evaluated the design, implementation and operating
the reported performance of the Company. The effectiveness of Company’s controls in respect of
management considers revenue as a key measure for revenue recognition.
210 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 229]
Independent Auditor’s Report
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matter
evaluation of performance. There is a risk of revenue Tested the effectiveness of such controls over
being recorded before control is transferred. revenue cut off at year-end.
Refer Note 1 to the Standalone Ind AS Financial On sample basis, tested supporting documentation
Statements - Material Accounting Policies and Note for sales transactions recorded during the year which
22A / 22B. included sales invoices, customer contracts and
shipping documents.
Performed an increased level of substantive testing
in respect of sales transactions recorded during the
period closer to the year end and subsequent to the
year end.
Compared revenue with historical trends and where
appropriate, conducted further enquiries and testing.
Assessed disclosures in financial statements in
respect of revenue, as specified in Ind AS 115.
Accounting for demerger of Hotels business
The Company, in the current year, has given effect to Our audit procedures included the following:
the scheme of demerger of Hotels business (demerged
Obtained and read the Scheme and final order passed
undertaking) into ITC Hotels Limited (ITCHL) pursuant
by the Hon’ble National Company Law Tribunal to
to the Scheme of Arrangement (‘Scheme’). The Scheme
understand its key terms and conditions.
was approved by the Hon’ble National Company
Evaluated the design and tested the operating
Law Tribunal, Kolkata bench vide its order dated
effectiveness of the internal financial controls
October 04, 2024 and the appointed date and the
(including management review controls) relevant
effective date of the Scheme is January 01, 2025.
for recording the impact of the Scheme and related
By virtue of this scheme being effective in the current
disclosures.
year, the said demerged undertaking has been disclosed
Tested the Management’s working for identification
as discontinued operations till the effective date of the
of specific assets and liabilities of the demerged
demerger.
undertaking and relevant impact in the reserves as
At the appointed and effective date, the Hotels business
per the Scheme.
of the Company (along with all assets and liabilities
Assessed the appropriateness of accounting
thereof, excluding ITC Grand Central, Mumbai) and the
treatment of this demerger and compared with
investments held by the Company in Hospitality entities
applicable Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) and
as defined in the Scheme were transferred to ITCHL on
the approved accounting treatment in the Scheme.
a going concern basis in accordance with the approved
Scheme. Obtained the report of the management’s expert for
determination of fair value of demerged undertaking.
Demerger is a significant non-routine transaction
Evaluated the competence and objectivity of the
and requires determination of fair value of demerged
management’s expert.
undertaking for the purposes of accounting as
per Ind AS which involves significant judgements Involved our valuation specialist to review the
and estimates which are sensitive to underlying appropriateness of methodology and key assumptions
assumptions (forecast of future cash flows, growth rate, considered by management to determine fair value of
weighted average cost of capital, discount rates etc). the demerged undertaking.
These judgements / estimates could have an impact
Assessed the adequacy and appropriateness of the
on the recognition of the amount of liability for assets
disclosures made with respect to the accounting of
to be distributed to shareholders at fair value and the
the transaction as required by the applicable Ind AS.
consequential gain as recognised in the standalone Ind
AS financial statements.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 211