[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 136-138

[PAGE 136]
Report of the Board of Directors
The respective Boards of Directors of the companies Particulars relating to Conservation of Energy and
included in the Group and of its associates and joint venture Technology Absorption
entities are responsible for maintenance of adequate
Particulars as required under Section 134 of the
accounting records in accordance with the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 relating to Conservation of Energy
the Act for safeguarding the assets of each company and and Technology Absorption are also provided in the
for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; Annexure to this Report.
the selection and application of appropriate accounting
Compliance with Secretarial Standards
policies; making judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent; and the design, implementation The Company is in compliance with the applicable
and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, Secretarial Standards issued by the Institute of Company
that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy Secretaries of India and approved by the Central
Government under Section 118(10) of the Act.
and completeness of the accounting records, relevant
to the preparation and presentation of the financial
Employees
statements that give a true and fair view and are free
The total number of employees as on 31st March, 2025
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
stood at 22,041.
Such financial statements have been used for the purpose
of preparation of the consolidated financial statements by The information required under Section 197(12) of the
the Board of Directors of your Company, as aforestated. Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel)
OTHER INFORMATION Rules, 2014 is provided in the Annexure forming
part of this Report.
Compliance with the conditions of Corporate
Governance The statement containing particulars of employees
as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies
The certificate from the Company’s Statutory Auditors,
Act, 2013 read with Rule 5(2) of the Companies
Messrs. S R B C & CO LLP, confirming compliance with
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated
Personnel) Rules, 2014, forming part of this Report,
under the Listing Regulations, is annexed. is available on the Company’s corporate website
www.itcportal.com .
Going Concern status
Dividend Distribution Policy
There was no significant or material order passed during
the year by any regulator, court or tribunal impacting The Dividend Distribution Policy of your Company
the going concern status of your Company or its future may be accessed on its corporate website at
https://www.itcportal.com/about-itc/policies/dividend-
operations.
distribution-policy.pdf .
Annual Return
Key Financial Ratios
The Annual Return of your Company is available on its corporate
Key Financial Ratios for the financial year ended
website at https://www.itcportal.com/investor/disclosures-
31st March, 2025, are provided in the Annexure forming
under-SEBI.aspx .
part of this Report.
Particulars of loans, guarantees or investments
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Details of loans and investments covered under the
This Report contains forward-looking statements that
provisions of Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013 are involve risks and uncertainties. When used in this
provided in Notes 4, 5, and 9 to the Financial Statements. Report, the words ‘anticipate’, ‘believe’, ‘estimate’,
No guarantees were outstanding as at the year end. ‘expect’, ‘intend’, ‘will’ and other similar expressions
118 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 137]
Report of the Board of Directors
as they relate to your Company and/or its Businesses constitute about two-thirds of Net Segment Revenue.
are intended to identify such forward-looking At the heart of this transformation lies the power of
statements. Your Company undertakes no obligation to synergy, with seamless access for your Company’s newer
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, Businesses/initiatives to the deep and varied capabilities
whether as a result of new information, future events, resident across different parts of the enterprise, and its
or otherwise. Actual results, performances or world-class talent pool.
achievements could differ materially from those expressed
An extensive strategy reset has been undertaken in recent
or implied in such forward-looking statements. Readers
years to architect the structural drivers that will power
are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these
the ITC Next strategy of building a Future-Ready,
forward-looking statements that speak only as of
Consumer-Centric, Climate Positive and Inclusive
their dates. This Report should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements included herein and organisation to drive the next horizon of growth &
the notes thereto. competitiveness.
The FMCG Businesses have delivered strong performance
CONCLUSION
in recent years and are well poised to be rapidly scaled up
Your Company’s ‘Triple Bottom Line’ philosophy has across the three growth platforms i.e., fortifying the core,
over the years spurred the creation of innovative
addressing value-added adjacent opportunities leveraging
business models that synergise the building of economic,
mother brands and nurturing new vectors of growth.
environmental and social capital. It is now universally
Multi-dimensional interventions, including strategic
evident that enterprises of the future will not only have
acquisitions in high-growth and future-facing
to be agile, consumer-centric, innovative and digital-first
categories, have been made to accelerate growth,
but also purpose-driven and responsibly competitive.
enhance competitiveness and market standing of the
In line with its superordinate goal of serving larger national
FMCG Businesses.
priorities and creating value for all stakeholders, your
Company’s paradigm of ‘Responsible Competitiveness’ Focused interventions made in the recent past have also
focuses on building extreme competitiveness in a augmented your Company’s multi-channel go-to-market
manner that replenishes the environment and supports capability, resulting in manifold expansion in the reach
sustainable livelihoods. and availability of its products. Over the last five years,
market coverage has grown by more than 2x, facilitating
The strategic Vision of creating multiple drivers of growth
availability of products in nearly seven million retail
through the pursuit of market opportunities that best match
outlets of which more than one-third are serviced directly.
institutional strengths, has resulted in the development of
strong Businesses of the future anchored on a portfolio Sharp-focused investments have augmented capability in
of purpose-led brands, future-ready products and new gen channels such as e-Commerce, Quick Commerce
world-class quality. Today, your Company is the leading and Modern Trade, resulting in strong growth in sales
FMCG marketer in India, a pioneering trailblazer in farmer and enhanced market standing. In addition, investments
and rural empowerment through its Agri Business, the towards accelerating agile and purposeful innovation,
clear market leader in the Indian Paperboards and optimising supply chain efficiencies, accelerated digital
Packaging industry, and a global exemplar in sustainability. adoption, and strategic partnerships have significantly
ITC Hotels Ltd.–a group entity–is a pre-eminent hotel chain enhanced competitiveness. The impact of these
and a globally acclaimed icon in green hoteliering. Since multi-dimensional interventions is evident in the
the turn of the millennium, your Company’s non-cigarettes substantial margin expansion of 560 bps in Segment
businesses11 have grown nearly 40-fold and presently
EBITDA witnessed between FY 2018-19 and FY 2023-24
even in the face of heightened competitive intensity and
11 Excluding the Hotels Business, which was demerged during the year into ITC
Hotels Limited inflationary pressures.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 119

[PAGE 138]
Report of the Board of Directors
The FMCG Businesses will continue to leverage your The Paperboards, Paper and Packaging Businesses
Company’s institutional strengths as a key source of have made significant progress in recent years in
sustainable competitive advantage viz. strong backward terms of enhanced scale and profitability improvement.
linkages with the Agri Business, a deep & wide While the current year performance was impacted by
multi-channel distribution network, cuisine knowledge low priced Chinese & Indonesian supplies in global
resident in ITC Hotels Limited (a group entity), packaging markets including India, soft domestic demand conditions
knowhow and the robust R&D platforms nurtured by and unprecedented surge in wood prices, strategic
LSTC. Structural advantages arising out of distributed interventions continue to be made in areas spanning
manufacturing footprint, anchored on state-of-the-art ICMLs plantations, sharpening the product portfolio and thrust
strategically located proximal to large demand centres, will
on structural cost management. Representations
be increasingly leveraged to drive rapid growth of the FMCG
continue to be made at appropriate forums through
Businesses. With enhanced scale and margin expansion,
Industry associations for suitable measures to safeguard
the FMCG Businesses are expected to make increasingly
domestic industry and development of economically
higher contributions to your Company’s profit pool,
viable alternatives for plantations on degraded forest
thereby setting the stage for further value enhancement
land. Strategic investments have been stepped up
opportunities.
in areas such as pulp import substitution, proactive
The Agri Business has been a strong backbone and a capacity augmentation in Value-Added Paperboards
key source of competitive advantage for your Company’s segment, decarbonisation of operations, deployment of
FMCG and Cigarettes Businesses. The scope and Industry 4.0 technologies and towards nurturing robust
scale of operations have grown manifold over the years innovation platforms. Your Company has also recently
and currently encompass nearly 3.5 million tonnes entered into a Business Transfer Agreement to acquire the
of annual volume throughput in 22 states and over Pulp and Paper Undertaking of Aditya Birla Real Estate
20 agri-value chains. In recent years, the Business has Limited (Century Pulp and Paper), which is expected to
pivoted its strategic focus towards rapidly scaling up its add significant scale and economies to existing operations
Value-Added Agri Products portfolio to accelerate growth with potential for further capacity expansion, provide
and margins. With policy enablers in place, your Company locational advantage for efficient customer servicing and
is scaling up NextGen agriculture value chains that are
proximity to key raw material sources, mitigate operational
digitally enabled and climate smart, and re-structuring
risks through multi-site operations and enhance resilience
the back end into a robust network of FPOs. This will
across industry cycles through portfolio diversification.
further strengthen the sourcing network and facilitate the
The focus going forward is to fortify market leadership
development of customised supply chains for traceable
in the fast-growing Value-Added Paperboards segment
and identity-preserved sourcing of agri-commodities
by augmenting scale, driving cutting-edge innovation to
and in augmenting the product portfolio with the
rapidly scale-up single use plastic substitutes as a new
addition of value-added products such as staples for the
vector of growth, building structural advantage through
Food Service segment, medicinal and aromatic plant
product mix enrichment and scaling up the use of
extracts etc. Towards enhancing the competitiveness
emergent technologies such as Industry 4.0 to enhance
of domestic agri-value chains, fostering new
operational efficiency, reduce wastage and costs.
business models and augmenting value creation
opportunities, your Company has successfully scaled up Your Company continues to build a dynamic
ITCMAARS – a crop-agnostic ‘phygital’ full stack ‘Future-Tech’ enterprise powered by state-of-the-art
AgriTech platform integrating NextGen agri-technologies digital technologies and infrastructure (‘Mission DigiArc’)
and solutions – to seamlessly deliver hyperlocal and across the value chain adding significant impetus to digital
personalised solutions to the farming community marketing, digital commerce, digital products and digital
whilst creating new and scalable revenue streams and operations. Your Company today, is a pioneer in adoption
strengthening sourcing efficiencies. of cutting-edge digital technologies across strategic
120 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025