[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 29-31

[PAGE 29]
Your Directors
Other Directorships sectors including tribal, women & child development,
urban development and poverty alleviation. She was the
Name of the entity Position
Secretary of the Ministry of Food Processing Industries,
Compass Limited, Non-Executive Director
GoI, for more than three years, from where she retired
Bermuda *
in January 2022. She also worked as Finance Secretary
Committee Membership of other entities: Nil of the combined State of Andhra Pradesh and has
expertise in handling public finance. Since 2013, she
managed the employment intensive sectors of textiles
P. Subrahmanyam and food processing industries at the national level
in the GoI. She has had high level exposure to
Pushpa Subrahmanyam (63), DIN: 01894076, was
policy making having worked in the Prime Minister’s
appointed as an Independent Director on the Board of ITC
effective April 2, 2024. Office for four years. She also worked with the
erstwhile Department for International Development, UK,
A Masters in Development Planning and Project
as Governance Adviser for three years. She has been
Management from the University of Bradford, UK, and
on the Boards of National Textile Corporation Limited,
a Masters in Political Science from the University of
Andhra Pradesh Power Generation Corporation Limited
Hyderabad, she is a retired IAS Officer with administrative
experience of over 36 years. and Transmission Corporation of Andhra Pradesh Limited,
amongst others.
She joined the Indian Administrative Service in 1985
(Andhra Pradesh cadre) and has worked across several She presently does not hold directorship in any other entity.
* Denotes foreign entity
# Denotes Indian entity whose securities are listed on a recognised stock exchange
Notes:
1. Other Directorships and Committee Memberships of Directors are as on 22nd May, 2025.
2. Committee Memberships cover Committees under the Companies Act, 2013 viz., Audit Committee, Stakeholders Relationship Committee, Nomination
and Remuneration Committee and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee of Indian entities.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 11

[PAGE 30]
Report on
Corporate Governance
The Directors present the Company’s Report on ITC’s Corporate Governance structure, systems and
Corporate Governance pursuant to the Securities and processes are based on two core principles:
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure
(i) Management must have the executive freedom to
Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘Listing Regulations’).
drive the enterprise forward without undue restraints,
ITC Limited has been one of the frontrunners in India and
to have put in place a formalised system of
(ii) This freedom of management should be exercised
Corporate Governance. Its governance framework enjoins
within a framework of effective accountability.
the highest standards of ethical and responsible conduct
ITC believes that any meaningful policy on Corporate
of business to create value for all stakeholders.
Governance must empower the executive management
THE COMPANY’S GOVERNANCE PHILOSOPHY of the Company. At the same time, Governance should
create a mechanism of checks and balances to ensure
ITC defines Corporate Governance as a systemic
that the decision-making powers vested in the executive
process by which companies are directed and controlled
management are used with care and responsibility to
to enhance their wealth-generating capacity. Since large
meet stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations.
corporations employ a vast quantum of societal resources,
ITC believes that the governance process should ensure From this definition and core principles of Corporate
that these resources are utilised in a manner that meets Governance emerge the cornerstones of ITC’s governance
stakeholders’ aspirations and societal expectations. philosophy, namely trusteeship, transparency, ethical
This belief is reflected in the Company’s deep commitment corporate citizenship, empowerment & accountability and
to contribute to the “triple bottom line”, namely conservation control. ITC believes that the practice of each of these
and development of the nation’s economic, social and creates the right corporate culture that fulfils the true
environmental capital. purpose of Corporate Governance.
The cornerstones of ITC’s governance philosophy are
trusteeship, transparency, ethical corporate citizenship,
empowerment & accountability and control.
12 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 31]
Report on Corporate Governance
Trusteeship recognises that large corporations which represent a coalition of interests, namely
those of the shareholders, other providers of capital, business associates and employees, have both
an economic and a social purpose, thereby casting the responsibility on the Board of Directors to
Trusteeship
protect and enhance shareholder value, as well as fulfil obligations to other stakeholders.
Inherent in the concept of trusteeship is the responsibility to ensure equity, namely that the rights of
all shareholders, large or small, are protected.
Transparency means explaining the Company’s policies and actions to those to whom it has
responsibilities. Externally, this means maximum appropriate disclosures without jeopardising the
Transparency Company’s strategic interests and internally, this means openness in the Company’s relationship
with its employees and in the conduct of its business. ITC believes transparency enhances
accountability.
Ethical Corporate Citizenship means setting exemplary standards of ethical behaviour,
Ethical
both internally within the organisation as well as in external relationships. ITC believes that
Corporate unethical behaviour corrupts organisational culture and undermines stakeholder value.
Citizenship Governance processes in ITC continuously reinforce and help realise the Company’s belief in ethical
corporate citizenship.
Empowerment is a process of unleashing creativity and innovation throughout the organisation by
truly vesting decision-making powers at the most appropriate levels and as close to the scene of action
Empowerment
as feasible, thereby helping actualise the potential of its employees. Empowerment is an essential
&
concomitant of ITC’s first core principle of governance that management must have the freedom to
Accountability
drive the enterprise forward. ITC believes that empowerment combined with accountability provides
an impetus to performance and improves effectiveness, thereby enhancing shareholder value.
Control ensures that freedom of management is exercised within a framework of checks and
balances, and is designed to prevent misuse of power, facilitate timely management of change and
Control ensure effective management of risks. ITC believes that control is a necessary concomitant of its
second core principle of governance that freedom of management should be exercised within a
framework of effective accountability.
THE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE (b) Strategic management of the Company, uncluttered
The practice of Corporate Governance in ITC takes place by the day-to-day tasks of executive management,
at three interlinked levels: remains focused and energised; and
Strategic supervision by the Board of Directors (c) E xecutive management of the divisional business, free
Strategic management by the Corporate Management
from collective strategic responsibilities for ITC as
Committee
a whole, remains focused on enhancing the quality,
Executive management by the Divisional Chief Executive
assisted by the Divisional efficiency and effectiveness of the business to achieve
Management Committee
best-in-class performance.
The three-tier governance structure ensures that:
The core roles of the key entities flow from this structure.
(a) S trategic supervision (on behalf of the Shareholders), being
These roles, in turn, determine the core responsibilities
free from involvement in the task of strategic management
of each entity. In order to discharge such responsibilities,
of the Company, can be conducted with objectivity,
thereby sharpening accountability of management; each entity is empowered formally with requisite powers.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 13