[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 164-166

[PAGE 164]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
The estimated useful lives of investment properties are of monetary items are recognised in the Statement of
same as those disclosed for PP&E. Profit and Loss.
Transfers to, or from, investment properties are made at Exchange differences arising on monetary items that, in
the carrying amount when and only when there is a change substance, form part of the Company’s net investment in
in use. a foreign operation (having a functional currency other
than Indian Rupee) are recognised in other comprehensive
An item of investment property is derecognised upon
income and accumulated in Foreign Currency Translation
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected
Reserve.
to arise from the continued use of asset. Any gain or loss
arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of investment Derivatives and Hedge Accounting
property is determined as the difference between the sales Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are
proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. of each reporting period. The resulting gains / losses are
Income received from investment property is recognised recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss immediately
in the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis unless the derivative is designated and effective as a
over the term of the lease. hedging instrument, in which case the resulting gain / loss
is recognised as per the hedge accounting principles
Impairment of Assets stated below.
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent, the carrying The Company complies with the principles of hedge
amount of assets or CGU exceeds their recoverable accounting where derivative contracts and / or non-derivative
amount. financial assets / liabilities that are permitted under
Recoverable amount is higher of an asset’s fair value less applicable accounting standards are designated as hedging
costs of disposal and its value in use. Value in use is the instruments. At the inception of the hedge relationship,
present value of estimated future cash flows expected to the Company documents the relationship between the
hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with the
arise from the continuing use of an asset or CGU and from
risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking
its disposal at the end of its useful life.
hedge transaction, which can be a fair value hedge or a
Impairment losses recognised in prior years are reversed
cash flow hedge.
when there is an indication that the impairment losses
(i) Fair value hedges
recognised no longer exist or have decreased. Such
reversals are recognised as an increase in carrying Changes in fair value of the designated portion of
amounts of assets to the extent that it does not exceed the hedging instruments that qualify as fair value hedges
are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
carrying amounts that would have been determined (net of
immediately, together with any changes in the fair value
amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss been
of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the
recognised in previous years.
hedged risk. Such fair value changes are recognised in
Inventories the line item relating to the hedged item in the Statement
Inventories are stated at lower of cost and net realisable of Profit and Loss.
value. The cost is calculated on weighted average method. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal course instrument is derecognised, expires or is sold,
of business in bringing such inventories to their present terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies
location and condition and includes, where applicable, for hedge accounting. The fair value adjustment to the
appropriate overheads based on normal level of activity. carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less hedged risk is included in the Statement of Profit and
estimated costs for completion and sale. Loss from that date.
Obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories are (ii) Cash flow hedges
identified from time to time and, where necessary, a The effective portion of changes in the fair value
provision is made for such inventories. of hedging instruments that are designated and
qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the
Foreign Currency Transactions
other comprehensive income and accumulated as
The functional and presentation currency of the Company ‘Cash Flow Hedge Reserve’. The gains / losses relating
is Indian Rupee. to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in
Transactions in foreign currency are accounted for at the Statement of Profit and Loss.
the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. Amounts previously recognised and accumulated
Gains / losses arising on settlement, as also on translation in other comprehensive income are reclassified to
146 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 165]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
profit or loss when the hedged item affects the Statement measurement of financial assets depends on such
of Profit and Loss. However, when the hedged item classification.
results in the recognition of a non–financial asset, Financial assets are classified as those measured at:
such gains / losses are transferred from equity (but not
(a) amortised cost, where the financial assets are held
as reclassification adjustment) and included in the initial
solely for collection of cash flows arising from payments
measurement cost of the non–financial asset.
of principal and / or interest.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income
instrument is derecognised, expires or is sold,
(FVTOCI), where the financial assets are held not only
terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies
for collection of cash flows arising from payments of
for hedge accounting. Any gains / losses recognised
principal and interest but also from the sale of such
in other comprehensive income and accumulated in
assets. Such assets are subsequently measured at fair
equity at that time remain in equity and is reclassified
value, with unrealised gains and losses arising from
when the underlying transaction is ultimately
changes in the fair value being recognised in other
recognised. When an underlying transaction is no longer
comprehensive income.
expected to occur, the gains / losses accumulated in
equity are recognised immediately in the Statement of (c) fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), where the
Profit and Loss. assets are managed in accordance with an approved
investment strategy that triggers purchase and sale
Investment in Subsidiaries, Associates and Joint
decisions based on the fair value of such assets.
Ventures
Such assets are subsequently measured at fair value.
Investment in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in
are carried at cost less accumulated impairment, if any. the fair value, including interest income and dividend
income, if any, are recognised in ‘other income’ in the
Financial instruments, Financial assets, Financial
Statement of Profit and Loss in the period in which they
liabilities and Equity instruments
arise.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when
Trade Receivables, Advances, Security Deposits, Cash
the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions
and cash equivalents etc. are classified for measurement
of the relevant instrument and are initially measured at fair
at amortised cost while investments may fall under any
value except for trade receivables that do not contain a
of the aforesaid classes. However, in respect of particular
significant financing component, which are measured at
investments in equity instruments that would otherwise
transaction price.
be measured at fair value through profit or loss, an
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the
irrevocable election at initial recognition may be made to
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial
present subsequent changes in fair value through other
liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities
comprehensive income.
measured at fair value through profit or loss) are added
Impairment: The Company assesses at each reporting
to or deducted from the fair value on initial recognition of
date whether a financial asset (or a group of financial
financial assets or financial liabilities. Purchase or sale of
assets) such as investments, trade receivables, advances
financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time
and security deposits held at amortised cost and financial
frame established by regulation or convention in the market
assets that are measured at fair value through other
place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade
comprehensive income are tested for impairment based
date, i.e., the date when the Company commits to purchase
on evidence or information that is available without undue
or sell the asset.
cost or effort. Expected credit losses are assessed and loss
Financial Assets allowances recognised if the credit quality of the financial
Recognition: Financial assets include Investments, Trade asset has deteriorated significantly since initial recognition.
Receivables, Advances, Security Deposits, Cash and cash Reclassification: When and only when the business
equivalents. Such assets are initially recognised at fair value model is changed, the Company shall reclassify all affected
or transaction price, as applicable, when the Company financial assets prospectively from the reclassification date
becomes party to contractual obligations. The transaction as subsequently measured at amortised cost, fair value
price includes transaction costs unless the asset is being through other comprehensive income or fair value through
fair valued through the Statement of Profit and Loss. profit or loss without restating the previously recognised
Classification: Management determines the classification gains, losses or interest and in terms of the reclassification
of an asset at initial recognition depending on the purpose principles laid down in the Ind AS relating to Financial
for which the assets were acquired. The subsequent Instruments.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 147

[PAGE 166]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
Derecognition: Financial assets are derecognised when Revenue from the sale of goods and services is recognised
the right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired, when the Company performs its obligations to its customers
or has been transferred, and the Company has transferred and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership. recovery of the consideration is probable. The timing of such
Concomitantly, if the asset is one that is measured at: recognition in case of sale of goods is when the control over
(a) amortised cost, the gain or loss is recognised in the the same is transferred to the customer, which is mainly
Statement of Profit and Loss; upon delivery and in case of services, in the period in which
such services are rendered.
(b) fair value through other comprehensive income, the
cumulative fair value adjustments previously taken to Government Grant
reserves are reclassified to the Statement of Profit and
The Company may receive government grants that require
Loss unless the asset represents an equity investment,
compliance with certain conditions related to the Company’s
in which case the cumulative fair value adjustments
operating activities or are provided to the Company
previously taken to reserves are reclassified within
by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain
equity.
qualifying criteria.
Income Recognition: Interest income is recognised in the Government grants are recognised when there is
Statement of Profit and Loss using the effective interest reasonable assurance that the grant will be received upon
method. Dividend income is recognised in the Statement the Company complying with the conditions attached to the
of Profit and Loss when the right to receive dividend is grant. Accordingly, government grants:
established.
(a) related to or used for assets, are deducted from the
Financial Liabilities carrying amount of the asset.
Borrowings, trade payables and other financial liabilities (b) related to incurring specific expenditures are taken to
are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently the Statement of Profit and Loss on the same basis and
measured at amortised cost. Any discount or premium on in the same periods as the expenditures incurred.
redemption / settlement is recognised in the Statement of (c) by way of financial assistance on the basis of certain
Profit and Loss as finance cost over the life of the liability qualifying criteria are recognised in the Statement of
using the effective interest method and adjusted to the Profit and Loss as they become receivable.
liability figure disclosed in the Balance Sheet.
In the unlikely event that a grant previously recognised is
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is ultimately not received, it is treated as a change in estimate
extinguished, that is, when the contractual obligation is and the amount cumulatively recognised is expensed in the
discharged, cancelled or on expiry. Statement of Profit and Loss.
Offsetting Financial Instruments Dividend Distribution
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount Dividends paid (including income tax thereon, if any) are
is included in the Balance Sheet where there is a legally recognised in the period in which the interim dividends are
enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and approved by the Board of Directors, or in respect of the final
there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the dividend when approved by the shareholders.
asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Employee Benefits
Equity Instruments
Short-term employee benefits are expensed in the period
Equity instruments are recognised at the value of the in which the employee renders the related service on an
proceeds, net of direct costs of the capital issue. undiscounted basis. A liability is recognised for the amount
expected to be paid within twelve months, if the Company
Revenue
has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay the
Revenue is measured at the transaction price that the
same as a result of past service provided by the employee
Company receives or expects to receive as consideration
and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
for goods supplied and services rendered, net of returns
The Company makes contributions to both defined benefit
and estimates of variable consideration such as discounts
to customers. Revenue from the sale of goods includes and defined contribution schemes which are mainly
Excise Duties and National Calamity Contingent Duty administered through duly constituted and approved Trusts.
which are payable on manufacture of goods but excludes Provident Fund contributions are in the nature of defined
taxes such as VAT and Goods and Services Tax which are contribution scheme. In respect of employees who are
payable in respect of sale of goods and services. members of constituted and approved trusts, the Company
148 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025