[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 43-45

[PAGE 43]
Report on Corporate Governance
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
Timely disclosure of consistent, comparable, relevant and reliable information on corporate financial performance is at the
core of good governance. Towards this end, the Company has taken the following initiatives:
Website
Communications with the investing community
The Company’s corporate website www.itcportal.com
provides comprehensive information on ITC’s portfolio of Detailed presentations to the investing community on the
businesses, CSR & sustainability initiatives, EHS performance, quarterly financial results are sent to the Stock Exchanges
shareholding pattern, key Company Policies and contact and also made available on the Company’s corporate website.
In addition, investor presentations on other major events
details of the employees responsible for assisting investors
such as acquisitions by the Company, demerger of
and handling investor grievances. An exclusive section on
Hotels Business etc. were also made available in the public
‘Investor Relations’ serves to inform and service Shareholders,
domain, through the websites of the Company and the
enabling them to access information at their convenience.
Stock Exchanges.
Annual Report
The Report and Accounts, including the Standalone and
Consolidated Financial Statements, the Report of the
Other disclosures / filings
Board of Directors and the Auditors’ Reports, is sent to the
Shareholders of the Company, and is also available on the A copy of the Chairman’s Speech delivered at the AGM is
Company’s corporate website. sent to the Shareholders and is also made available on the
Company’s corporate website. In addition, shareholding
The Report of the Board of Directors, forming part of the
pattern, material events and other important information
Report and Accounts, includes all aspects of Management
relating to the Company are submitted to the Stock Exchanges
Discussion and Analysis as required under the Listing Regulations.
and also made available on the Company’s website.
Financial Results
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results,
along with the Media Statement and presentation on the
Company’s financial performance, are sent to the Shareholders.
Media Releases
These documents along with FAQs on results are also
available on the Company’s corporate website. The ‘Media Centre’ section of the Company’s corporate
website includes all major media releases from the
Extracts of these results are published in ‘The Times of India’ /
Company and relevant media reports.
‘Business Standard’ & ‘Aajkaal’ from Kolkata, and on an all India
basis in major newspapers and also in ‘Luxemburger Wort’,
Luxembourg.
ITC CODE OF CONDUCT
The ITC Code of Conduct, as adopted by the Board, is
Declaration as required under the Listing Regulations
applicable to the Directors, senior management and
employees of the Company. The Code is derived from
three interlinked fundamental principles viz., good All Directors and senior management of the Company
corporate governance, good corporate citizenship have affirmed compliance with the ITC Code of Conduct
and exemplary personal conduct in relation to the for the financial year ended 31st March, 2025.
Company’s business and reputation. The Code covers
ITC’s commitment to CSR and sustainable development,
concern for occupational health, safety and environment, S. Puri
a gender friendly workplace, transparency and auditability, Chairman &
legal compliance, avoidance of conflict of interest, and the Kolkata, 22nd May, 2025. Managing Director
philosophy of leading by personal example. The Code is
available on the Company’s corporate website.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 25

[PAGE 44]
Report on Corporate Governance
WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY During the year, the Company was not required to
obtain credit rating for any debt instrument, fixed
Synopsis of the Whistleblower Policy of the Company
deposit programme or any other scheme involving
is provided in the ‘Report of the Board of Directors &
mobilisation of funds.
Management Discussion and Analysis’, forming
part of the Report and Accounts. The Whistleblower The Company has not raised any funds through
Policy, as approved by the Board, may be preferential allotment or qualified institutions placement.
accessed on the Company’s corporate website at
None of the Directors of the Company has been
https://www.itcportal.com/whistleblower-policy .
debarred or disqualified from being appointed or
continuing as a Director by the SEBI / Ministry of
POLICY ON RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Corporate Affairs / Statutory Authorities; Certificate
The Policy, as approved by the Board, may be
from the Company’s Secretarial Auditors confirming
accessed on the Company’s corporate website at
the same is annexed to this Report.
https://www.itcportal.com/rpt-policy .
During the year, the Company or its subsidiaries have
ITC CODE OF CONDUCT FOR PREVENTION OF not provided any loans or advances (being in the
INSIDER TRADING - 2019 nature of loans) to firms / companies in which Directors
The ITC Code of Conduct for Prevention of Insider of the Company are interested.
Trading - 2019, as approved by the Board, inter alia, prohibits Details with respect to Secretarial Auditors of the
trading in the securities of the Company by the Directors Company and confirmation by the Board regarding
and employees while in possession of unpublished price independence of the Independent Directors are
sensitive information in relation to the Company. provided in the ‘Report of the Board of Directors &
Management Discussion and Analysis’, forming part
OTHER DISCLOSURES / CONFIRMATIONS
of the Report and Accounts.
During the last three years, there was neither any
Disclosures in relation to the Sexual Harassment of
instance of non-compliance by the Company nor
Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and
penalty / stricture imposed on the Company by the
Redressal) Act, 2013 are provided in the ‘Business
Stock Exchanges / SEBI / Statutory Authorities with
Responsibility and Sustainability Report’, forming part
respect to any matter related to the capital markets.
of the Report and Accounts.
There are no inter-se relationships between the Directors
Information with respect to ‘Commodity Price Risk
and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company.
or Foreign Exchange Risk and Hedging Activities’
During the year, the Company has not entered into
is provided in the ‘Report of the Board of Directors
any materially significant related party transaction
& Management Discussion and Analysis’ and in the
which may have potential conflict with the interest of
‘Notes to the Financial Statements’, forming part of the
the Company at large.
Report and Accounts.
The names of senior management of the Company
In view of the diversified business portfolio of the
under the Listing Regulations (i.e., CMC Members,
Company, its exposure in none of the individual
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary) are
commodities which are sourced either for use as
provided under the section ‘Board of Directors and
inputs in its businesses or for agri-commodity trading
Committees’ in the Report and Accounts. There were
is material in the context of its overall operations,
no changes in the senior management during the year.
and also in terms of the ‘Policy for determination of
The senior management of the Company did not enter materiality of events and information for disclosure
into any material financial and commercial transaction to the Stock Exchanges’, as approved by the Board.
during the year, in which they had personal interest Accordingly, the disclosure requirements prescribed
that may have had potential conflict with the interest of under the SEBI Master Circular dated 11th November,
the Company at large. 2024 are not applicable for the Company.
26 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 45]
Report on Corporate Governance
The total fees paid during the year by the Company 4. Audit Opinion: It has always been the Company’s
and its subsidiaries to Messrs. S R B C & CO LLP, endeavour to present Financial Statements with
Statutory Auditors, and all entities in the network
unmodified audit opinion, i.e. without any qualification.
firm / network entities which are part of the network
The Statutory Auditors have issued an unmodified
of which the Statutory Auditors are a member firm,
aggregate ` 9.68 Crores. audit opinion on the Company’s Financial Statements
for the year ended 31st March, 2025.
Mr. R. K. Singhi, Executive Vice President &
Company Secretary, is the Compliance Officer under 5. Internal Audit: The Head of Internal Audit reports to
the Listing Regulations.
the Audit Committee of the Board.
DISCRETIONARY REQUIREMENTS UNDER THE
6. Meeting of Independent Directors Committee:
LISTING REGULATIONS
As stated above, one meeting of the Independent
The status of compliance with the discretionary
Directors Committee of the Board was held during
requirements under the Listing Regulations is provided
the year.
below:
7. Risk Management Committee: The Company has
1. Separate posts of Chairman and Managing Director:
The Chairman of the Company is an Executive a Risk Management Committee, details of which
Chairman. The Company has a diversified business are given under the heading ‘Other Committees -
portfolio which demands that the senior leadership
Risk Management Committee’.
has in-depth knowledge and understanding of the
functioning of the Company, so as to enhance the GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
value-generating capacity of the organisation and
Provided in the ‘Shareholder Information’ section of the
contribute significantly to stakeholders’ aspirations
and societal expectations. The Chief Executive is Report and Accounts.
therefore generally chosen from amongst the executive
CONFIRMATION OF COMPLIANCE
management of the Company.
2. Non-Executive Chairman’s Office: Not applicable. It is confirmed that the Company has complied with the
3. Shareholder Rights: The quarterly, half-yearly and requirements prescribed under Regulations 17 to 27 and
annual financial results of the Company are sent to clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of
the Shareholders and also posted on the Company’s
the Listing Regulations. The Statutory Auditors’ Certificate
corporate website; extracts of these results in the
that the Company has complied with the conditions of
prescribed format are published in newspapers on
Corporate Governance is annexed to the ‘Report of
an all India basis. Significant events are also posted
on the Company’s website under the ‘Media Centre’ the Board of Directors & Management Discussion and
section. Analysis’, forming part of the Report and Accounts.
Notes:
1. Reference to Division / Divisional Business includes Strategic Business Unit (SBU), Business Vertical and Shared Services.
2. Reference to Divisional Management Committee includes SBU Management Committee, Shared Services Management Committee and Executive Committee for
Business Vertical.
3. Reference to Divisional Chief Executive includes Heads of SBU, Business Vertical and Shared Services.
The ITC Code of Conduct is derived from three interlinked
fundamental principles – good corporate governance,
good corporate citizenship and exemplary personal conduct.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 27