[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 117-119

[PAGE 117]
Report of the Board of Directors
Preserving and Nurturing Biodiversity risks. The policy also encourages suppliers to work
towards resource-use efficiency, including sustainable
Given the linkages between agriculture and the essential
natural resource management, GHG emission reduction
ecosystem services that nature provides, your Company
and sustainable waste management. For focused
recognises that the preservation and nurturing of
engagement with key suppliers, your Company has
biodiversity is crucial for long-term sustainability of its
created a framework for identifying its critical suppliers.
businesses. It is therefore committed to conducting its
Till FY 2024-25, more than 800 Tier-1 suppliers have been
operations in a manner that protects, conserves and
trained on ESG including 100% critical Tier-1 suppliers.
enriches biodiversity in line with the Board-approved
Additionally, appx. 70% critical Tier-1 suppliers have been
Policies on Biodiversity Conservation and Deforestation.
assessed on ESG aspects by a third party.
For both greenfield and brownfield operations, processes
For key agri value chains, your Company has implemented
are in place for assessing any actual or potential biodiversity
large scale sustainable and Climate Smart Agriculture
related risk or impact including conducting environmental
programmes. Till date, 31.7 lakh acres and over 12 lakh
impact assessments wherever required by environmental
farmers including 1.87 lakh women farmers have been
regulations. Moreover, location-specific exposure
covered under your Company’s Climate Smart Agriculture
including proximity to Key Biodiversity Areas is assessed
programme. Your Company also supports farmers with
periodically. Basis these assessments, key nature-related
adoption of sustainable farm certifications like Rainforest
risks that are material to your Company’s businesses/
® ®
alliance (RFA), Forest Stewardship Council (FSC ),
locations are identified, and mitigation plans are developed
Global Agricultural Practices (G.A.P) for identifying and
and implemented. Location specific risks covered in these
addressing environmental risks and human rights related
assessments include water stress, climate risks including
issues. For more information, refer to the Corporate Social
extreme weather events like droughts and floods,
Responsibility section.
land-use changes, soil quality and productivity, among
others. Your Company also recognises the potential
ITC’s Nutrition Strategy - ‘Help India Eat Better’
of nature-based solutions for carbon sequestration
In the context of India’s Triple burden of malnutrition, there
and building climate resilience, and prioritises actions
is an urgent need to pivot towards healthier lifestyles which
to minimise impacts across ecosystems and manage
requires access to safe, sustainable and nutritious food.
dependencies in a sustainable manner. Your Company
also has large scale programmes in place for ensuring Your Company’s Branded Packaged Foods Businesses
deforestation-free leaf tobacco and wood value chains. have developed a 4-pillar model that uniquely combines
For more information, refer to the Corporate Social the strategic commitments to deliver on its nutrition
Responsibility section. strategy – ‘Help India Eat Better’. The strategy has
been developed to create an ecosystem and guide the
Sustainable Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing
organisation towards supporting the dream of a healthier
Your Company, with its diverse and expanding portfolio of nation via value-added products, sustainable food system
businesses, is working towards scaling up its sustainable initiatives, empowered people and healthy communities.
supply chain initiatives as part of its Sustainability 2.0 This also includes focus on diet diversity, food fortification,
Vision. Your Company has a Board-approved Policy on leveraging traditional systems of knowledge and use
‘Sustainable Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing’ and of millets. The strategy is also in line with Government
a ‘Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Service Providers’ of India initiatives such as Mission Poshan 2.0,
that together lay down the foundation for your Company’s Anemia Mukt Bharat, Kuposhan Mukt Bharat, Surakshit
engagement with its suppliers. In line with this policy, Matritva Abhiyan and the Aspirational Districts
your Company engages with its supply chain members Programme. Robust science-based nutrition targets
for building their capacity, assessing sustainability risks, have also been developed and are continuously tracked
and supporting them in building resilience against such and communicated to your Company’s stakeholders.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 99

[PAGE 118]
Report of the Board of Directors
The meticulous implementation of evolving scientific effective climate finance framework to close the
principles and technological advancements by your climate finance gap and facilitate climate-resilient
Company’s research and development teams enables growth.
development of ‘better for you’ portfolio. Your Company
The Centre in collaboration with CEEW (Council for
also achieved the first rank in ATNI India Index 2023
Energy, Environment and Water) launched the report
amongst 20 of the largest Indian food & beverage
on ‘Building Climate Resilience for Indian Industry’
manufacturers as assessed by the globally recognised
at the 19th Sustainability Summit. The report has
Access to Nutrition Initiative (ATNI). The index is published
developed a Physical Climate Risk Assessment
every 2-3 years and evaluates companies on their
Framework (PCRAF) to assess and quantify climate
governance and management, production and distribution
risks for Indian businesses and their value chains.
of healthy products, influence on consumer choices,
and policies and actions targeting priority populations at In collaboration with Ministry of Environment, Forest
high risk of malnutrition. and Climate Change (MoEFCC), the Centre is
actively contributing to the formulation of the National
Promoting Thought Leadership in Sustainability Inventory of Greenhouse Gases related to the
To ensure wider adoption of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ Industrial Processes and Product Use (IPPU) sector
philosophy across the Industry, your Company established as part of India’s fourth National Communications
the ‘CII – ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable (NATCOM) to the United Nations Framework
Development’ (CESD) in 2006 in collaboration with the Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). With a vision to 1st Biennial Transparency Report under the NATCOM
drive transformation towards sustainable development, project, guided by the Ministry of Environment, Forest
the Centre plays a focal role in Government Industry and Climate Change.
dialogues on national regulations, articulate stakeholder
Advancing Creation of a Circular Economy
discourses on global policies, put forth Indian industry’s
The India Plastics Pact (IPP), launched in September
stand on macro-economic issues and accentuate the
2021, is uniting businesses, NGOs, and citizens
need for sustainable and inclusive transformation. Major
behind four ambitious time-bound targets to
highlights from the year include:
help realise a vision of a world where plastic is valued
Building Climate Resilience and Low Carbon Economy
and doesn’t pollute the environment. The Pact is the
The CII Climate Action Charter (CCAC) provides a first in Asia and joins a global network of 13 Plastics
platform for Indian businesses to map Climate Change Pacts. 53 organisations are signatories to the Pact
as a material risk across value chains and develop and have committed to the Pact’s 2030 Targets for
long-term actions to build resilience. The Charter a circular plastics economy. Some of the key reports
has been designed to provide impetus for collective launched by IPP during the year include:
action by Indian businesses to drive solutions
– Roadmap for managing films and flexible
for a just, equitable and resilient transition, and
packaging in India
currently, has close to 500 signatories across
industry sectors. – Design for recycling guidance for films and
flexible packaging and Landscape assessment:
CII-led delegation participated in the 29th Conference
Reuse models in India.
of the Parties (COP29), held in Baku, Azerbaijan, from
November 11-22, 2024. The report, ‘CII at COP29 The Centre partnered with the Ministry of Environment,
Negotiations: Indian Industry Expectations’, launched Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) for streamlining
at the Conference, emphasises a balanced approach implementation of environmental reforms, thereby
that incorporates both mitigation and adaptation, fostering circular economy, transparency and
acknowledging the need for a more equitable and enhancing natural resource management. During the
100 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 119]
Report of the Board of Directors
year the Centre partnered with Bureau of Indian take forward clean air agenda in India and promote
Standards (BIS) to develop standards related to focused actions through collective leadership of
waste management, sustainability, environmental Industry sub-sectors. The Forum led by 123 business
management and ecological priorities. The Centre leaders, contribute towards making the air quality in
also worked with the Central Pollution Control Board India better through the Crop Residue Management
to resolve challenges related to Extended Producer (CRM) and through city-level awareness activities. In
Responsibility (EPR) obligations under the rules the last six years the programme has led to saving of
for plastics, e-waste, battery and hazardous waste 12 million kg fine Particulate Matter (PM2.5).
management.
To enhance the ecosystem for Electric Vehicle (EV),
During the year, CII signed an MoU with the All-India CII facilitated industry inputs for 3 key Working Groups
Plastics Manufacturing Association to encourage under the newly formed National EV Task Force of
action, knowledge sharing, and awareness between the Ministry of Heavy Industries (MHI).
larger businesses and MSMEs.
Facilitating an Enabling Ecosystem for ESG Reporting
Since 2020, CII has been working across various
As part of SEBI’s Industry Standards Forum (ISF),
sectors and has successfully supported over
CII formed a Core Group and held consultations
260 sites in achieving SuP-free (single-use
to develop Standards for Reporting on Business
plastic-free) certification.
Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR)
During the year, the Centre hosted the first edition of Core. The recommendations made by CII on the
the CII Circular Economy Conference and launched SEBI Consultation Paper – ‘Recommendations of
the CII Sustainable Plastic Packaging Awards for the Expert Committee for Facilitating Ease of Doing
recognising upstream innovations and changes Business with respect to BRSR’ were accepted by the
in design of plastic packaging by businesses, regulatory body.
driving the transition towards a circular plastics
To help Indian organisations navigate ESG
economy in India.
compliances and go beyond compliance, CESD
Nature Positive Actions launched SaaS based ESG Subscription Service at
The India Business and Biodiversity Initiative the 19th Sustainability Summit.
(IBBI) participated in consultation meetings for The Eco Edge initiative of the Centre aims at integrating
updating the National Biodiversity Strategy and sustainability in the value chains of companies.
Action Plan (NBSAP), and for adoption of National
The focus areas include Decarbonisation, Circularity,
Biodiversity Targets (NBTs) in alignment with the
Health & Safety, and Human Rights. The programme
Global Biodiversity Framework (GBF). At COP16
evaluates the performance of sourcing companies and
to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in
their value chain partners. During the year, more than
Cali, Colombia, India launched its updated National
200 suppliers’ sustainability performance was assessed
Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan (NBSAP).
through the Eco Edge programme for the automotive
IBBI was designated by the MoEFCC as the and energy sectors. For further adoption the Eco Edge
responsible agency for Target 15 of India’s updated Online Assessment Tool was also launched.
NBSAP. Target 15 focuses on sustainable production,
Knowledge Exchange and Excellence in Sustainability
supply chains, and disclosure of risks, aiming to ensure
The 19th Sustainability Summit, Centre’s flagship
businesses manage biodiversity risks effectively.
annual event, was organised with the theme of
Enhancing solutions for Clean Air
Driving Change for a Sustainability Conscious World.
‘India CEO Forum for Clean Air’ is a dedicated The Summit deliberated on tangible actions in
platform aiming to galvanise Indian businesses to driving sustainable change and highlighted inspiring
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 101