[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 373-375

[PAGE 373]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
processes for continual risk identification, assessment Necessary training is given to all employees in recognising
and mitigation, with active participation of the workforce hazards and issues. Joint inspections by management
in each of its facilities. Shop floor processes in this regard representatives and employees on the shop floor are also
include hazard spotting tours, suggestion schemes, daily carried out at regular intervals, and respective corrective
briefings and periodic EHS Committee meetings in which and preventive measures are undertaken to mitigate the
employees participate. In addition, all ITC Units undergo identified risks. In order to create an open and transparent
periodic Environment, Health & Safety audits at the safety culture across ITC Units, employees are encouraged
Business as well as Corporate level which endeavours to participate and discuss safety related issues in forums
to identify additional latent risks besides verifying like periodic EHS Committee meetings and Departmental
compliance with standards. Several national awards and Open Forums.
certifications acknowledge ITC’s commitment and efforts d. Do the employees/ worker of the entity have access
towards providing a safe and healthy workplace to all. to non-occupational medical and healthcare services?
c. Whether you have processes for workers to report (Yes/No)
the work-related hazards and to remove themselves
Yes, permanent employees and their family members have
from such risks. (Y/N)
access to the Company provided or Company supported
Yes. A system is in place across ITC factories and offices for medical benefits. Workers have access to medical benefits
workers to spot and report work-related hazards, and offer through Company provided group insurance policies,
suggestions for improvements. This is further enabled Company funded medical support and where applicable,
through digitisation, enhancing worker participation. statutory benefits under the Employees’ State Insurance Act.
11. Details of safety related incidents.
Safety Incident/Number Category* FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person Employees 0.04 0.05
hours worked)
Workers 0.16 0.09
Total recordable work-related injuries Employees 2 3
Workers 11 7
No. of fatalities Employees 0 0
Workers 2 0
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding Employees 0 0
fatalities)
Workers 0 0
*Including in the contract workforce
Note: The above data point does not include information for Hotels Business. The data for Hotels Business has been disclosed
separately as a part of the Exhibit-A
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place.
In line with the Company’s Environment, Health and Safety Policy, safety as a value-led concept has been institutionalised
by inculcating a sense of ownership at all levels and driving behavioural change, leading to the creation of a cohesive
safety culture. ITC has put in place comprehensive health and safety protocols for the safety and well-being of its
stakeholders. ITC endeavours that EHS standards at all its units are ahead of applicable legislations, regulations, and
Standards and Codes, and are benchmarked against international best practices across the diverse sectors in which
it operates.
ITC continues to strengthen its safety processes, adopting globally recognised best practices, and ensuring that facilities
are designed, constructed, operated and maintained in an inherently safe manner. ITC will continue to undertake efforts
for creating a safe working environment and a strong safety culture by:
• Integrating safety at the design stage itself and ensuring it through design reviews, stage inspections and pre-
commissioning audits, thereby strengthening the engineering control measures through ‘design for safety’ principles.
• Conducting pre-commissioning and periodic operational audits during construction and operational stages respectively.
• Implementing behaviour-based safety initiatives to facilitate engagement for collaborative work on improving
safety performances.
• Adoption of keystone behaviours by individual units to demonstrate collective commitment and create a shared
vision of safety and discipline.
• Embracing and leveraging the digital landscape for safety management system.
• Identifying solutions for strengthening the safety culture aligned with the goal of ‘Zero Accidents’.
XXVI

[PAGE 374]
Business Responsibility
REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 and Sustainability Report
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers.
Employees are encouraged to report work area related safety issues through various programmes.
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Filed During Pending Remarks Filed During Pending Remarks
The Year Resolution The Year Resolution
At The End Of At The End Of
Year Year
Working
0 0 - 12 1* -
Conditions
Health &
0 0 - 0 0 -
Safety
*Resolved after 31st March, 2024
14. Assessments for the year:
% of your plants and offices that were assessed (by
entity or statutory authorities or third parties)
Health and safety practices 100%
Working Conditions 100%
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on
significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions.
Internal audits of ITC units at Divisional as well as corporate level are being conducted on a periodic basis. Corrective
and preventive measures are taken based on the findings. Detailed investigations are carried out for all accidents to
identify the root causes and to understand the measures required to prevent recurrence. Accident investigation findings
with corrective and preventive measures form part of the report presented to the Corporate Management Committee
(monthly) and the Board of Directors (generally at every meeting). The learnings from all accidents are disseminated
across the organisation at periodic intervals and a formal compliance obtained.
Leadership Indicators
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of (A) Employees
(Y/N) (B) Workers (Y/N).
Yes. In the unfortunate event of the death of an employee/worker, the Company extends financial support to family
members of the employee/worker.
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited
by the value chain partners.
The Company ensures that statutory dues as payable by service providers for their employees are deposited on time
and in full through periodic audits and controls.
3. Provide the number of employees / workers having suffered high consequence work-related injury / ill-health
/ fatalities (as reported in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been rehabilitated and placed in suitable
employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment.
Total No. Of Affected No. Of Employees/Workers That Are
Employees/Workers* Rehabilitated And Placed In Suitable
Employment Or Whose Family Members
Have Been Placed In Suitable Employment*
FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24 FY 2024-25 FY 2023-24
Employees 0 0 0 0
Workers 2 0 2 0
*Onsite Accidents
XXVII

[PAGE 375]
Business Responsibility
and Sustainability Report REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the
management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No)
ITC continually invests in human capital development which includes building skills and capabilities that are contemporary
while providing employees with a diversity of experiences. These enhance the employability of the workforce and
enable a smooth transition to alternate opportunities where sought. The Company has in place a programme called
‘Making New Choices’ for retiring staff. In addition, the Company provides pension benefits and post-retiral medical
benefits for those members of staff who qualify. Workers are provided with pension benefits, as per requirements of
the relevant statute.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
ITC’s Policy on Sustainable Supply Chain and Responsible Sourcing ensures integration of sustainability in its supply
chains. ITC’s suppliers /value-chain partners are expected to adopt the principles enumerated in ITC’s Code of Conduct
for Suppliers and Service Providers. ITC reserves the right to verify compliance with the Code of Conduct for Suppliers
and Service Providers at any time through appropriate audit and assessment mechanisms, including self-certification.
Health and safety audits conducted at ITC’s own manufacturing sites cover all contract workers within ITC’s operational
premises. Additionally, ITC conducts third-party desktop assessment of its Critical Tier - 1* suppliers which includes
key aspects on Occupational Health and Safety, amongst other assessment criteria.
*All ITC Businesses have identified Critical Tier-1 suppliers based on aspects like buy value, ESG risk exposure and importance
to business continuity, among others. ITC’s Sustainable Supply Chain Programme is focussed on working closely with the set
of identified critical suppliers.
% of value chain partners* (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed
Health and safety practices As of 31st March, 2025, ~70% of the Com-
pany’s Critical Tier-I suppliers have been
Working Conditions
assessed by a third party on ESG aspects
including health and safety practices and
working conditions.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from
assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
ITC’s Sectoral EHS Guidelines are shared by Businesses with their value chain partners, and periodic training is given
to their concerned personnel.
Periodic audits by ITC are conducted for some of its key value chain partners against the Sectoral EHS guidelines.
Corrective and preventive measures are recommended based on the audit findings.
Principle 4
Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to all its stakeholders
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
In line with the Board approved Policy on Stakeholder Engagement, ITC has evolved a structured framework for identifying
and engaging with its key stakeholders across the value chain. ITC’s engagement approach is anchored on the principles of
materiality, completeness and responsiveness.
The engagement approach takes into cognisance the fact that each stakeholder group is unique and has a distinctive
set of priorities. Insights gathered from stakeholder engagements, help validate the Company’s performance and shape
new perspectives.
Note: For details on ITC’s Process of Stakeholder Engagement, refer to ‘Stakeholder Engagement’ section of ITC Sustainability Report 2025.
XXVIII