[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 33-35

[PAGE 33]
Report on Corporate Governance
Divisional Chief Executive: The Divisional Chief Executive
Director Category No. of No. of Membership(s) /
of a business has the executive responsibility for its other Chairpersonship(s) of
Directorship(s) Audit Committee /
day-to-day operations and provides leadership to the DMC
as on Stakeholders
in its task of executive management of the business and 31st March, Relationship
the Verticals within the Division. 2025 * Committee of other
Indian public limited
The Chief Operating Officer of a Business Vertical companies
is responsible for providing leadership to the as on 31st March, 2025
Executive Committee of the Vertical and realising S. Puri Chairman & 6 Nil
Managing Director
the tactical & strategic objectives of the respective
S. Dutta Executive Director & 10 2
business area.
Chief Financial Officer [also as Chairperson]
H. Malik Executive Director Nil Nil
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
B. Sumant Executive Director 2 Nil
Composition
H. Bhargava Independent Director 4 2
The ITC Board is a balanced Board comprising Executive [including 1 as
Chairperson]
and Non-Executive Directors, with Independent Directors
A. M. Bharucha Independent Director 4 4
representing at least 50% of the total strength of the Board.
[including 2 as
The Non-Executive Directors, including Independent Chairperson]
Directors, are all drawn from amongst eminent professionals C. K. Mishra Independent Director 7 2
with experience in business / finance / law / public S. Mukherjee Independent Director 2 3
administration and enterprises. The ITC Board is an [including 2 as
Chairperson]
optimal mix of professionalism, knowledge, experience
A. Nayak Independent Director Nil Nil
and diversity. The Directors of the Company also
N. Rao Independent Director 2 1
possess the skills, expertise and competencies, as
[also as Chairperson]
identified by the Board and provided in the Annexure
A. K. Seth Independent Director Nil Nil
forming part of this Report.
P. Subrahmanyam Independent Director Nil Nil
In terms of the applicable regulatory requirements read S. Mohanty Non-Executive Director 11 1
with the Articles of Association of the Company, the Representative of the
strength of the Board shall not be fewer than six nor more Life Insurance Corporation
of India as Investor
than eighteen. The present strength of the Board is sixteen
A. Pande Non-Executive Director 1 Nil
comprising the Chairman & Managing Director, three
Representative of the
Executive Directors, eight Non-Executive Independent Specified Undertaking of
Directors, of which three are Women Directors, and the Unit Trust of India as
Investor
four Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors.
S. Panray Non-Executive Director Nil Nil
Composition of the Board as on 31st March, 2025:
Representative of
Tobacco Manufacturers
Category No. of Percentage to
(India) Limited (‘TMI’),
Directors total no. of Directors a subsidiary of British
American Tobacco p.l.c.,
Executive Directors 4 25.00
as Investor
Non-Executive Independent Directors 8 50.00 A. Singh Non-Executive Director 1 Nil
Representative of TMI as
Non-Executive Non-Independent Directors 4 25.00 Investor
Total 16 100.00 * Details with respect to other Directorships are provided under the section ‘Your Directors’
in the Report and Accounts.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 15

[PAGE 34]
Report on Corporate Governance
Meetings and Attendance Write-offs / disposals of fixed assets, inventories,
receivables, advances etc.
The Company’s Governance Policy requires the Board to
meet at least five times in a year. The tentative annual Significant development in Human Resources /
calendar of meetings is determined at the beginning Industrial Relations.
of each year. During the financial year 2024-25, the
Non-compliance of any regulatory, statutory or listing
intervening period between two Board Meetings was well
requirements and in relation to shareholders’ services.
within the maximum gap of 120 days prescribed under the
Post-meeting follow-up system
Listing Regulations.
The Governance processes in the Company include an
Board Agenda
effective post-meeting follow-up, review and reporting
Meetings are governed by a structured agenda. The Board
process for action taken / pending on decisions of the Board,
Members, in consultation with the Chairman, may bring up
the Board Committees, the CMC and the DMCs.
any matter for the consideration of the Board. All major
agenda items are backed by comprehensive background Details of Board Meetings during the financial year
information to enable the Board to take informed decisions. 2024-25
Agenda papers are generally circulated between seven to
Six meetings of the Board were held, as follows:
fourteen days prior to the Board Meeting.
Sl. Date Board Strength No. of
Information placed before the Board
No. Directors
In terms of the Company’s Governance Policy, all statutory present
and other significant & material information are placed
1 15th April, 2024 18 16
before the Board to enable it to discharge its responsibility
of strategic supervision of the Company as trustees of 2 23rd May, 2024 18 17
Shareholders. The following in particular are tabled for the 3 1st August, 2024 17 17
Board’s approval / periodic review or information:
4 24th October, 2024 16 16
Annual operating plans & budgets and periodic review
5 6th February, 2025 16 16
of the Company’s businesses.
6 31st March, 2025 16 15
Quarterly, half-yearly and annual performance,
including business segment-wise financials. Attendance at Board Meetings and at Annual General
External Audit Management Reports (through the Meeting (‘AGM’) during the financial year 2024-25
Audit Committee).
Director No. of Board Attendance at
Status of safety and legal compliance.
Meetings attended last AGM
Status and effectiveness of risk management plans.
S. Puri 6 Yes
CSR and sustainability initiatives of the Company
S. Dutta 6 Yes
(through the CSR and Sustainability Committee).
Succession to senior management (through the H. Malik 6 Yes
Nomination & Compensation Committee). B. Sumant 6 Yes
Statutory compliance reports from business units /
H. Bhargava 6 Yes
corporate functions.
A. M. Bharucha 6 Yes
Show cause / demand / prosecution / adjudication
notices, if any, from revenue authorities which are C. K. Mishra 1 3 N.A.
considered materially important, including any S. Mohanty 2 1 N.A.
exposure that exceeds 1% of the Company’s net worth
S. Mukherjee 6 Yes
and their outcome.
A. Nayak 6 Yes
Significant court judgement or order passing strictures,
if any, on the conduct of the Company or a subsidiary of A. Pande 3 4 N.A.
the Company or any employee, which could negatively
S. Panray 6 Yes
impact the Company’s image.
N. Rao 4 Yes
Product liability claims of substantial nature, if any.
A. K. Seth 6 Yes
Default, if any, in payment of dues to any major creditor.
16 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 35]
Report on Corporate Governance
Attendance at Board Meetings and at AGM during the reliability of financial and other management
financial year 2024-25 (Contd.) information and adequacy of disclosures.
Director No. of Board Attendance at compliance with all relevant statutes.
Meetings attended last AGM The role of the Committee includes the following:
A. Singh 4 6 Yes (a) To oversee the Company’s financial reporting process
P. Subrahmanyam 5 6 Yes and the disclosure of its financial information to ensure
that the financial statements are correct, sufficient and
S. Banerjee 6 2 Yes
credible;
A. Duggal 7 3 Yes
(b) To recommend the appointment, remuneration and
M. Gupta 8 4 Yes removal of the Auditors;
R. Jain 9 1 N.A. (c) To recommend the appointment of the Chief Financial
M. Shankar 7 3 Yes Officer of the Company;
(d) To approve transactions with related parties, including
1. Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. 14th September, 2024.
modifications thereto;
2. Appointed as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 1st January, 2025.
3. Appointed as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 27th July, 2024. (e) To evaluate the Company’s internal financial controls
4. Appointed as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024.
5. Appointed as Independent Director w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024. and risk management systems;
6. Ceased to be Independent Director w.e.f. 30th July, 2024 upon completion of term.
(f) To review with the management, the following:
7. Ceased to be Independent Director w.e.f. 15th September, 2024 upon completion of term.
8. Resigned as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 27th October, 2024. (i) Annual financial statements and Auditor’s Report
9. Resigned as Non-Executive Director w.e.f. 31st May, 2024.
thereon;
(ii) Quarterly and half-yearly financial results and
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
Auditor’s Report / Limited Review Report thereon;
Currently, there are five Board Committees –
(g) To review the following:
the Audit Committee, the Nomination & Compensation
(i) Management discussion and analysis of
Committee, the Securityholders Relationship Committee,
financial condition & results of operations, and
the CSR and Sustainability Committee and the
matters required to be included in the Directors’
Independent Directors Committee. The terms of reference of
Responsibility Statement;
these Committees are determined by the Board from time
(ii) Adequacy of internal control systems and the
to time, other than the Independent Directors Committee
Company’s statement on the same, in consultation
the terms of reference of which are as prescribed under law.
with the management, the Statutory Auditors and
Meetings of Board Committees are normally convened by the
the Internal Auditors;
respective Committee Chairman. Matters requiring the Board’s
(iii) Adequacy and effectiveness of internal control
attention / approval, as emanating from the Board Committee
systems laid down in the Company for compliance
Meetings, are placed before the Board with clearance of the
with the provisions of the Securities and Exchange
Committee Chairman. All recommendations made by the
Board of India (Prohibition of Insider Trading)
Board Committees during the year were accepted by the Board.
Regulations, 2015;
Minutes of Board Committee Meetings are placed before
(iv) Internal Audit Reports including any significant
the Board. The role and composition of these Committees,
findings and follow-up thereon;
including the number of meetings held during the
(v) Statutory Auditors’ independence and performance,
financial year and the related attendance, are provided below.
and effectiveness of the audit process;
(vi) S ystem for maintenance, storage, retrieval, security etc.
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE
of books of accounts in the electronic form;
The Audit Committee provides reassurance to the
(vii) F unctioning of Whistleblower mechanism in the
Board on the existence of an effective internal control
Company;
environment that ensures:
(viii) Annual financial statements, including investments,
efficiency and effectiveness of operations. of subsidiary companies;
safeguarding of assets and adequacy of provisions for (ix) Utilisation of loans and / or advances and investments
all liabilities. by the Company to / in the subsidiary companies.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 17