[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 113-115

[PAGE 113]
Report of the Board of Directors
climate strategy places equal emphasis on transitioning to Energy Conservation and Renewable Energy
a low carbon economy and adapting to the worst impacts
As a responsible corporate citizen, your Company has
of climate change.
made a commitment to reduce dependence on energy
Your Company is pursuing a low carbon growth strategy from fossil fuels. Accordingly, appropriate green features
through extensive decarbonisation programmes across are being incorporated in all factories, warehouses and
its value chain. These include increasing the share of office complexes with many of them certified at the highest
renewable energy, continuous reduction of specific level by either the US Green Building Council (USGBC)
or Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). During the
energy, construction of green buildings, greening
year, despite significant increase in scale of operations,
logistics & optimising distance-to-market, and promoting
your Company sourced nearly 52% of its total energy
regenerative agriculture practices in agri-value chains.
requirements from renewable sources such as biomass,
Your Company is also conducting Life-Cycle Analysis (LCA)
wind and solar. Your Company has been investing in
studies for developing a portfolio of innovative and
expanding renewable footprint across both thermal
sustainable products in line with growing consumer
and electrical energy. The recently commissioned
preference for climate friendly products.
state-of-the-art and future-ready High Pressure
Additionally, in order to address short-medium term as Recovery Boiler at the Bhadrachalam mill of your
well as long-term physical risks of climate change, your Company’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business
Company is working with climate experts to conduct replaced conventional soda recovery boilers thereby
comprehensive climate risk and vulnerability assessments reducing carbon footprint through lower coal
using climate models across its key agri value chains and consumption. In addition to this, your Company
operating locations (factories and warehouses). These installed capacity of over 174 MW 10 of solar and
assessments utilise latest AI-enabled climate modelling wind power across the country to meet its electrical
tools for projecting the extent of risk from climate hazards energy requirements.
related to changes in temperature, precipitation, sea
Your Company continues its efforts towards meeting 100%
level rise, flooding and other extreme weather events of purchased grid electricity requirements from renewable
over decadal time frames covering the period till 2100 sources by 2030 and sustaining 50% renewable energy
under various Shared Socioeconomic Pathways (SSPs) share in its total energy consumption based on a
scenarios (SSP1-2.6, SSP2-4.5 and SSP5-8.5). Detailed mix of energy conservation and renewable energy
farm-level studies have been conducted to understand investments, despite significant enhancement in its scale
the potential adverse impacts of climate change on your of operations going forward.
Company’s key agri-value chains. These risk assessments
GHG and Carbon Sequestration
help further calibrate the climate resilience measures that
are being implemented across your Company’s value The GHG inventory of your Company for FY 2024-25
chains. For major crops like wheat, pulpwood and leaf compiled according to the ISO 14064 Standard has been
tobacco among others, there is significant and sustained assured by an independent third party. The GHG inventory
work being done by your Company on the development covers emissions from your Company’s operations and
of climate-tolerant varieties as well as dissemination of GHG removals from your Company’s large-scale forestry
climate-resilient and regenerative agronomic practices programmes. Your Company’s Social and Farm Forestry
in the growing areas. Around 140 locations across your initiatives, besides sequestering carbon from the
Company’s own operations and the extended value chain atmosphere, help towards utilisation of degraded
have been assessed for climate risk. Based on the wasteland, prevent soil erosion, enhance organic matter
content in soil and increase ground water recharge.
findings of these assessments, detailed site-specific
studies are being undertaken for developing contextual
10 Excluding renewable energy assets transferred to ITC Hotels Limited post
location-specific adaptation plans and strategies. demerger.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 95

[PAGE 114]
Report of the Board of Directors
Towards Water Security for All Tamil Nadu (Upper Bhawani basin) and Telangana
(Murreru basin), water positive status was achieved in all
With water scarcity increasingly becoming an area of
the basins by end of the year as against water deficit
global and national concern, your Company continues
estimated in the baseline studies. In South Pennar river
to focus on an integrated water management approach
basin of Karnataka, work has been initiated in the field,
that includes water conservation and harvesting initiatives
basis the recommendations from the river basin study
at its units – while at the same time working towards
done by Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru.
meeting the water security needs of all stakeholders at
This is being pursued through a Public Private Partnership
the local watershed level. Several interventions have
with Karnataka Government and Vyakti Vikas Kendra for
been rolled out to improve water-use efficiencies such
restoring the water bodies in the river basin.
as adopting latest technologies and increasing reuse and
recycling practices within the fence while also working Considering the increasing water stress in urban
with farmers and other community members towards catchments, your Company is implementing water security
improving water-use efficiencies. programmes in Bengaluru and Chennai catchments.
Demand side management is a critical component These programmes focus on restoring urban water
of your Company’s Water Stewardship programme. bodies as well as tanks and their connectors, groundwater
Recognising the critical imperative of reducing water recharge and promotion of roof water harvesting and
use, especially in agriculture, your Company continues usage of water efficient taps. These measures are aimed
to work with farmers to achieve ‘more crop per drop’ and at addressing challenges of groundwater depletion
improve farmer incomes. Over 18 lakh acres have been and also mitigating risks arising out of flooding during
covered during the year across 12 states through micro heavy rains.
irrigation technologies and crop-specific agronomical
Your Company also conducts efficacy studies to assess
practices. Basis parameters established earlier, there
the impact of the watershed work carried out, and to
has been potential water savings of over 1,400 million kl
ensure that maximum benefits accrue in the long-term.
during the year. These interventions are spread across
As on 31st March, 2025, your Company’s integrated
15 crops including four key agri value chains – wheat,
watershed development projects covering over 1.8 million
tobacco, pulpwood and spices, and result in water savings
acres of land have created a total rainwater harvesting
up to 50% as compared to conventional practices.
potential of over 59.90 million kl. In total, over
The water-use efficient practices promoted also help in
60 million kl of rainwater has been harvested, including
reducing GHG emissions as compared to the conventional
within the fence, which is over five times the net
practices followed.
water consumed by your Company’s operations in
The demand side measures are implemented along with FY 2024-25. With this, your Company has achieved
augmenting supply at the sub-catchment level through its 2030 Sustainability 2.0 target of creating rainwater
various interventions of rainwater harvesting based on the harvesting potential equivalent to over five times the net
recommendations of hydro-geological studies. The supply water consumption.
side interventions include enhancing capture and storage
In addition, your Company is spearheading the
of rainwater (within soil surface and storage structures)
implementation of Alliance for Water Stewardship (AWS)
and recharging aquifers. In the process, traditional
Standard which is a credible, globally applicable and
water bodies are restored and wetland eco-systems are
recognised framework for ensuring sustainable water
conserved. To have a long-lasting impact and balance
management within the wider water catchment context.
out the competing demands on water resources, your
Company has also extended work to river basin level During the year, two units of your Company i.e., Paper
in water stressed catchments. Based on the work done unit at Bhadrachalam and Branded Packaged Foods
by your Company in four river basins viz. Maharashtra unit at Kapurthala, received the AWS Platinum level
(Ghod basin), Madhya Pradesh (Kolans basin), certification, the highest recognition for water stewardship
96 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 115]
Report of the Board of Directors
awarded by AWS. Till date, nine units of your Company Your Company aims to go beyond the requirements of
have achieved Platinum level certification under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2022 to ensure that
AWS Standard, thereby exceeding the commitment of over the next decade, 100% of packaging is reusable,
getting eight sites certified by 2024. recyclable or compostable/biodegradable. Your Company
is working towards optimising packaging in a way
Pioneering the Green Building Movement in India
that reduces the environmental impact arising out of
In order to continuously reduce your Company’s energy post-consumer packaging waste without affecting product
footprint, green features are being integrated in all new integrity. This is being addressed in a comprehensive
and old constructions including manufacturing units, manner by optimising packaging design, introducing
warehouses and office complexes. Your Company is a recycled content in packaging, identifying alternative
pioneer in the green building movement, with 17 buildings
packaging material with lower environmental impact and
having received Platinum certification by USGBC
supporting development of suitable end-of-life solutions
(US Green Building Council)/IGBC (Indian Green
for packaging waste.
Building Council).
Your Company has successfully implemented multiple
Several of your Company’s factories and office complexes
large-scale models of solid waste management across
have received the Green Building certification from IGBC
the country. These models, based on principles of circular
and the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design
economy, are scalable, replicable and sustainable, and
®
(LEED ) certification from USGBC. The data centre at
have enabled your Company to sustain its plastic neutral
Bengaluru, ITC Sankhya, is the first data centre in the
status since FY 2021-22. The approach is centred around
®
world to receive the LEED Platinum certification by
treating waste as a resource and ensuring that minimal
USGBC. Large infrastructure investments such as the
waste goes to landfill, which can be achieved only when
ITC Green Centre at Guntur and the ITC Green Centre
® waste is segregated at source. The initiatives focus on
at Bengaluru (both LEED Platinum certified) continue
educating citizens on segregating waste at source into
to demonstrate your Company’s commitment to green
dry & wet streams and ensuring that value is derived from
buildings. Virginia House, Kolkata and ITC Centre,
these resources and in the process, support sustainable
Kolkata – the headquarters of your Company, are
® livelihood for waste collectors. These models operate on a
also certified at the highest ‘LEED Platinum ’ rated
Green Building by USGBC. public-private partnership basis, with active involvement of
Urban Local Bodies (ULBs), civil society and the informal
Enabling a Circular Economy sector of waste collectors.
Your Company continues to make significant progress in Your Company has exceeded its commitment on plastic
improving the circularity of waste generated in operations. neutrality for the third consecutive year by collecting
The focus is on reducing waste through constant monitoring,
and sustainably managing 76,000 tonnes of plastic
improvement of efficiencies in material utilisation and
waste, which is more than the plastic packaging utilised
adequate waste segregation thereby improving recycling
by your Company. Your Company has been obtaining
rates. During the year, your Company achieved over 99%
independent third-party assurance of its plastic neutrality
recycling of waste generated in course of its operations.
status since FY 2022-23.
This has prevented waste from reaching landfills, with the
Your Company’s waste recycling programme,
associated problems of soil & groundwater contamination
and GHG emissions, all of which can adversely impact ‘WOW – Well-Being Out of Waste’, enables the creation
public health. In addition, your Company’s Paperboards & of a clean & green environment and promotes sustainable
Specialty Papers Business recycled nearly 85,000 tonnes livelihoods for waste collectors. During the year, the
of externally sourced post-consumer waste paper, thereby programme continued to be executed in Bengaluru,
creating yet another positive environmental footprint. Mysuru, Hyderabad, Coimbatore, Chennai, Delhi,
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 97