[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 100-102

[PAGE 100]
Report of the Board of Directors
(previous year ` 0.14 crore) and Net loss of ` 0.03 crore Logix Developers Private Limited (LDPL)
(previous year loss of ` 0.03 crore).
Logix Developers Private Limited is a joint venture
between your Company and Logix Estates Private Limited
Prag Agro Farm Limited
for developing a luxury hotel-cum-service apartment
The operations of the company continue to be adversely
complex at the company’s leasehold site located at
impacted pursuant to the Order of the Honourable
Sector 105 in New Okhla Industrial Development Authority
High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in February 2014
(NOIDA).
dismissing the writ petition filed by the company against
the Order of the District Magistrate authorising the Your Company presently holds 27.9% equity stake in
State authorities to take possession of the land leased to LDPL. As reported in prior years, your Company reiterated
the company. The company had filed an appeal against its position with the JV partner that it was committed
the aforementioned order of the Honourable High Court
to developing a luxury hotel-cum-service apartment
in 2014, which has been pending adjudication.
complex as envisaged under the JV Agreement and that
Considering the time and resources involved, the company it was not interested in progressing with any alternative
has since withdrawn the said appeal with the approval of project plans proposed by the JV partner. However, the
the Honourable High Court on 7th March 2025. During the JV partner refused to progress the project and instead
year, the company recorded Total Income of ` 0.10 crore expressed its intent to exit from the JV by selling its
(previous year ` 0.10 crore) and Net loss of ` 0.09 crore stake to your Company. Subsequently, the JV partner
(previous year loss of ` 0.02 crore).
proposed that both parties should find a third party to
sell the entire shareholding in LDPL. In view of these
NOTES ON JOINT VENTURES
developments, your Company had filed a petition before
ITC Filtrona Limited (formerly known as ITC Essentra the erstwhile Company Law Board submitting that the
Limited) – a joint venture of Gold Flake Corporation
affairs of the JV entity were being conducted in a manner
Limited
that was prejudicial to the interest of your Company and
The company delivered resilient performance during the the JV entity. The matter is currently before the National
year amidst continued volatility in the supply chain for Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). The JV partner had also
certain input materials. filed a petition before the Honourable Delhi High Court for
winding up the JV company, which was transferred to the
The company sustained its leadership position in the
industry consolidating its status as the preferred supply NCLT by the Honourable Delhi High Court. The matter
chain partner for several well-known national brands. was heard before the NCLT on several occasions in the
The company continues to leverage its core strengths past but could not be concluded. On 21st January, 2020,
of focused innovation, best-in-class quality, consistent the matter was assigned to a new bench, post which
delivery and strong customer relationships. hearings on the matter are being held.
The company continues to partner with its customers and In July 2022, LDPL received a communication from NOIDA
invest in technology upgradation and capability building
authorities intimating cancellation of the sub-lease for the
towards sustaining its position as the ‘innovation and
land on which the project was to be constructed on account
quality benchmark’ in the Indian cigarette filter industry.
of non-payment of lease instalments and non-fulfilment
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the company’s of the conditions of the sub-lease, including forfeiture
Revenue from Operations stood at ` 761.34 crores of the amount deposited. The company is evaluating all
(previous year ` 743.45 crores). Net Profit during the year options to pursue its rights in the matter. Consequently,
stood at ` 83.85 crores (previous year ` 80.80 crores). as a matter of prudence, the company had derecognised
The Board of Directors of the company has recommended the leasehold land/assets as well as adjusted/reversed
a dividend of ` 125 per equity share of ` 10 each the lease liabilities towards NOIDA in accordance with the
for the year ended 31st March, 2025 (previous year terms of the sub-lease deed, in its financial statements for
` 100 per equity share). the year ended 31st March 2022.
82 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 101]
Report of the Board of Directors
During the year ended 31st March, 2025, the company and Maharaja Heritage Resorts Limited have been
recorded a Net Profit of ` 0.25 crore (previous year transferred to ITCHL on a going concern basis from the
` 0.22 crore). The Net Worth of the company stood at Effective Date i.e., 1st January 2025. ITCHL issued and
` 5.57 crores as at 31st March, 2025 (previous year allotted equity shares to the shareholders of your Company
` 5.32 crores). as per the share entitlement ratio provided in the Scheme
and consequently your Company holds 39.88% stake in
Your Company’s total investment in LDPL was
ITCHL as at 31st March 2025. Consequently, ITCHL has
` 41.95 crores. Your Company had made provision of the
become an Associate of your Company.
entire investment amount as diminution in the carrying
value of investment in the previous years and consequently ITCHL is amongst the fastest growing hospitality
the carrying value of your Company’s investment in LDPL chains in the country with over 140 properties and
as at 31st March, 2025, is Nil. 13,300 rooms under multiple brands catering to different
market segments. ITCHL is recognised for its portfolio of
The financial statements of LDPL for the year ended
world-class properties, iconic bouquet of brands, cuisine
31st March, 2025, are yet to be approved by its
expertise and service excellence. Anchored on the ethos
Board of Directors. In the absence of audited financial
of ‘Responsible Luxury’, ITCHL is a global exemplar in
statements of LDPL, the Consolidated Financial
sustainable hospitality.
Statements of your Company for the year ended
31st March, 2025, have been prepared based on the The company delivered robust performance during
financial statements prepared by the management the year clocking record high revenue and profits.
of LDPL. Room revenues recorded strong growth driven by
broad-based performance across segments. Occupancy
NOTES ON ASSOCIATES
and Average Daily rate (ADR) witnessed robust growth
ITC Hotels Limited on the back of sustained demand across key markets and
smart revenue management.
ITC Hotels Ltd. (ITCHL) was incorporated as a
wholly-owned subsidiary of your Company in July, ITCHL continues to pursue an ‘asset-right’ growth strategy
2023. The Board of Directors of your Company and to drive growth while reducing capital intensity of operations
ITC Hotels Limited, had on 14th August, 2023 by focusing on strong partnerships with asset owners,
approved, subject to necessary statutory and regulatory leveraging brand credentials and providing operational
approvals, the Scheme of Arrangement amongst your expertise. A substantial part of incremental room
Company and ITC Hotels Limited and their respective additions is expected to accrue through management and
shareholders and creditors (‘Scheme’) for demerger franchising contracts going forward. The company is also
of the Hotels Business (as defined in the Scheme) progressing investments towards scaling up its portfolio
of your Company on a going concern basis. of owned hotel rooms. A greenfield project is underway
The Scheme was approved by the Honourable National at Puri, Odisha and a new block is under construction at
Company Law Tribunal, Kolkata Bench vide its the existing Welcomhotel in Bhubaneshwar. ITCHL also
order dated 4th October, 2024. seeks to leverage its strategic land bank to enhance the
portfolio of owned hotels.
Pursuant to the Scheme, the Hotels Business of
your Company (along with all assets and liabilities The hospitality sector in India is poised to grow rapidly
thereof, excluding ITC Grand Central, Mumbai) in the years ahead driven by growing per capita income,
and the investments held in hospitality entities i.e. rapid urbanisation, increasing societal aspirations and
Fortune Park Hotels Limited, Bay Islands Hotels Limited, low room supply penetration. ITCHL is well placed to
Landbase India Limited, WelcomHotels Lanka craft its next horizon of growth as a pure-play hospitality
(Private) Limited, Srinivasa Resorts Limited, entity leveraging your Company’s institutional strengths,
International Travel House Limited, Gujarat Hotels Limited strong brand equity and goodwill.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 83

[PAGE 102]
Report of the Board of Directors
Delectable Technologies Private Limited In April 2025, your Company executed Definitive
Agreements to acquire the balance 73.5% stake in one
Delectable Technologies Private Limited (Delectable)
or more tranches over a time period of about two to
is, inter alia, engaged in the sale of FMCG products
three years subject to fulfilment of prescribed terms and
leveraging app-based technology through vending
conditions.
machines, primarily installed across office locations.
The total investment of the Company in Delectable stands at ATC Limited (an associate of Gold Flake Corporation
Limited)
` 11 crores for a 39.3% stake, on a fully diluted basis.
The company is a contract manufacturer of cigarettes.
Delectable has significantly scaled down its operations
The company continues to deliver superior quality
during the year. Your Company has divested its holding in
products to its customers while maintaining high levels of
Delectable in May 2025.
flexibility and agility in its manufacturing operations.
Sproutlife Foods Private Limited During the year, the company received the ‘National
Award for Outstanding Industrial Relations 2023-24’ from
Sproutlife Foods Private Limited (Sproutlife) operates
All India Organisation of Employers in the MSME category
in the fast growing, nutrition-led health food space with
and the ‘Silver Prize in Manufacturing Small Sector’
a diversified product portfolio across multiple categories
at the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce
including protein bars, breakfast cereals, nutraceuticals
and Industry (FICCI) Awards for Excellence in Quality
etc. under the ‘Yogabar’ brand.
Systems 2024. The company was also recognised as an
During the year, your Company invested ` 30 crores in ‘Energy Efficient Unit’ by Confederation of Indian
Sproutlife, consequent to which your Company’s stake Industry (CII) and accredited with Social Accountability
now stands at 47.50% (previous year 44.74%) on a fully Management System Standard SA 8000:2014 by DNV.
diluted basis. Cumulative investment in Sproutlife stands
Associates of Russell Credit Limited
at ` 255 crores as at 31st March, 2025.
Russell Investments Limited, Divya Management
Sproutlife continues to register robust growth across its
Limited and Antrang Finance Limited
target markets in its core categories of Bars, Muesli and
Oats; product portfolio was augmented during the year The above companies are associates of Russell Credit
with the launch of protein drinks and whey protein. Limited. These companies are NBFCs registered with
the Reserve Bank of India and continue to explore
Mother Sparsh Baby Care Private Limited opportunities for strategic investments.
Mother Sparsh Baby Care Private Limited (Mother Sparsh) For further details on performance of the above-mentioned
is a premium ayurvedic and natural baby care brand, associate companies, please refer to Form AOC-1
which is focused on baby personal care, health & hygiene (Statement containing salient features of the financial
and expert baby care. With high quality products, Mother statements of Subsidiaries / Associate companies /
Sparsh aims to serve the needs of informed new-age Joint Ventures), forming part of the Report and Accounts.
mothers who are making conscious decisions to switch to
INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROLS
superior products for their babies.
The Corporate Governance Policy guides the conduct
The company recorded robust growth during the year
of affairs of your Company and clearly delineates the
on the back of increasing consumer franchise for its
roles, responsibilities and authorities at each level of its
differentiated product range and entry into the quick
three-tiered governance structure and key functionaries
commerce channel.
involved in governance. The ITC Code of Conduct commits
As at 31st March 2025, your Company held 26.5% stake management to financial and accounting policies, systems
in Mother Sparsh on a fully diluted basis at a cumulative and processes. The Corporate Governance Policy and the
investment value of ` 45 crores. ITC Code of Conduct stand widely communicated across
84 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025