[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 162-164

[PAGE 162]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
Company Information
ITC Limited (the ‘Company’) [CIN: L16005WB1910PLC001985] The Company is a diversified conglomerate with
is a public limited company domiciled in India with its businesses spanning Fast-Moving Consumer Goods
registered office located at Virginia House, 37 Jawaharlal (Cigarettes & Cigars, Foods, Personal Care Products,
Nehru Road, Kolkata 700 071. The Company’s shares are Education & Stationery Products, Safety Matches and
listed on the National Stock Exchange of India Limited, Agarbattis), Paperboards, Paper and Packaging, and
BSE Limited and The Calcutta Stock Exchange Limited. Agri Business.
1. Material Accounting Policies
Statement of Compliance of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both
current and future periods.
These financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS) Operating Cycle
notified under Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 and
All assets and liabilities have been classified as current
amendments thereto. The financial statements have also
or non-current as per the Company’s normal operating
been prepared in accordance with the relevant presentation
cycle and other criteria set out in the Schedule III to the
requirements of the Companies Act, 2013. The Company
Companies Act, 2013 and Ind AS 1 – Presentation of
adopted Ind AS from 1st April, 2016.
Financial Statements based on the nature of products and
Basis of Preparation the time between the acquisition of assets for processing
and their realisation in cash and cash equivalents.
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with
The Company has identified twelve months as its operating
the historical cost convention, except for certain items that
cycle.
are measured at amortised cost or fair value, as explained
in the accounting policies. Property, Plant and Equipment
Fair Value is the price that would be received to sell an Property, plant and equipment (PP&E) are stated at cost of
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation
between market participants at the measurement date, and accumulated impairment, if any. For this purpose,
regardless of whether that price is directly observable or cost includes deemed cost which represents the carrying
estimated using another valuation technique. In estimating value of PP&E recognised as at 1st April, 2015 measured
the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Company takes as per the previous Generally Accepted Accounting
into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if Principles (GAAP).
market participants would take those characteristics Cost is inclusive of inward freight, import duties &
into account when pricing the asset or liability at non-refundable taxes and incidental expenses related
the measurement date. Fair value for measurement to acquisition. In respect of major projects involving
and / or disclosure purposes in these financial statements construction, related pre-operational expenses form part of
is determined on such a basis, except for share-based the value of assets capitalised. Expenses capitalised also
payment transactions that are within the scope of include applicable borrowing costs for qualifying assets,
Ind AS 102 – Share-based Payment, leasing transactions if any. All upgradation / enhancements are charged off
that are within the scope of Ind AS 116 – Leases, and as revenue expenditure unless they bring similar significant
measurements that have some similarities to fair value additional benefits.
but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in
An item of PP&E is derecognised upon disposal or when
Ind AS 2 – Inventories or value in use in Ind AS 36 –
no future economic benefits are expected to arise from
Impairment of Assets. the continued use of asset. Any gain or loss arising on the
The preparation of financial statements in conformity disposal or retirement of an item of PP&E is determined as
with Ind AS requires management to make judgements, the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the amount of the asset and is recognised in Statement of
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and Profit and Loss.
liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets
at the date of the financial statements, and the reported are ready for their intended use, which is generally on
amounts of revenues and expenses during the year. Actual commissioning. Items of PP&E are depreciated in a manner
results could differ from those estimates. The estimates that amortizes the cost (or other amount substituted for
and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing cost) of the assets after commissioning, less its residual
basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised value, over their useful lives as specified in Schedule II of
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision the Companies Act, 2013 on a straight-line basis. Land is
affects only that period; they are recognised in the period not depreciated.
144 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 163]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
The estimated useful lives of PP&E of the Company are The carrying value of intangible assets includes deemed
as follows: cost which represents the carrying value of intangible
assets recognised as at 1st April, 2015 measured as per
Buildings 30-60 Years
the previous GAAP.
Leasehold Improvements Shorter of lease period or After initial recognition, an intangible asset is carried at
estimated useful lives its cost less accumulated amortization and / or impairment
Plant and Equipment 3-25 Years losses.
The useful life of an intangible asset is considered finite
Furniture and Fixtures 8-10 Years
where the rights to such assets are limited to a specified
Vehicles 8-10 Years period of time by contract or law (e.g. patents, licences,
Office Equipment 5 Years trademarks, franchise and servicing rights) or the likelihood
of technical, technological obsolescence (e.g. computer
PP&E’s residual values, useful lives and method of software, design, prototypes) or commercial obsolescence
depreciation are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date (e.g. lesser known brands are those to which adequate
and changes, if any, are treated as changes in accounting marketing support may not be provided). If, there are no
estimate. such limitations, the useful life is taken to be indefinite.
Intangible assets that have finite lives are amortized over
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
their estimated useful lives by the straight-line method
Goodwill unless it is practical to reliably determine the pattern of
Goodwill arising on Business Combination is carried at benefits arising from the asset. An intangible asset with
cost less any accumulated impairment losses. an indefinite useful life is not amortized. However, it is
annually tested for impairment. Amortization expenses and
Goodwill is annually tested for impairment. Impairment
impairment losses and reversal of impairment losses are
loss, if any, to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the
included in the ‘Depreciation and amortization expense’ in
recoverable amount is charged off to the Statement of Profit
the Statement of Profit and Loss.
and Loss as it arises and is not reversed. For impairment
testing, goodwill is allocated to Cash Generating Unit (CGU) The estimated useful lives of intangible assets of the
or group of CGUs to which it relates, which is not larger Company with finite lives are as follows:
than an operating segment, and is monitored for internal
Trademarks / Know 10 Years (unless shorter
management purposes.
How, Business and useful life is required based
On disposal of the CGU or group of CGUs, attributable Commercial Rights on contractual or legal terms)
amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the
Computer Software 5 Years
profit or loss recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Customer Relationships 8 Years
Other Intangible Assets
Other Intangible Assets that the Company controls and from The useful lives of intangible assets are reviewed annually to
which it expects future economic benefits are capitalised determine if a reset of such useful life is required for assets
upon acquisition and measured initially: with finite lives and to confirm that business circumstances
a. for assets acquired in a business combination, at fair continue to support an indefinite useful life assessment for
value on the date of acquisition. assets so classified. Based on such review, the useful life
may change or the useful life assessment may change from
b. for separately acquired assets, at cost comprising
indefinite to finite. The impact of such changes is accounted
the purchase price (including import duties and
for as a change in accounting estimate.
non-refundable taxes) and directly attributable costs to
prepare the asset for its intended use. Investment Property
Internally generated assets for which the cost is clearly Properties that are held for long-term rental yields and / or
identifiable are capitalised at cost. Research expenditure is for capital appreciation are classified as investment
recognised as an expense when it is incurred. Development properties. Investment properties are stated at cost of
costs are capitalised only after the technical and commercial acquisition or construction less accumulated depreciation
feasibility of the asset for sale or use has been established. and impairment, if any. Depreciation is recognised using
Thereafter, all directly attributable expenditure incurred to the straight-line method so as to amortise the cost of
prepare the asset for its intended use are recognised as the investment properties over their useful lives as specified
cost of such assets. Internally generated brands, websites in Schedule II of the Companies Act, 2013. Freehold land
and customer lists are not recognised as intangible assets. and properties under construction are not depreciated.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 145

[PAGE 164]
Notes
to the Standalone Financial Statements
1. Material Accounting Policies (Contd.)
The estimated useful lives of investment properties are of monetary items are recognised in the Statement of
same as those disclosed for PP&E. Profit and Loss.
Transfers to, or from, investment properties are made at Exchange differences arising on monetary items that, in
the carrying amount when and only when there is a change substance, form part of the Company’s net investment in
in use. a foreign operation (having a functional currency other
than Indian Rupee) are recognised in other comprehensive
An item of investment property is derecognised upon
income and accumulated in Foreign Currency Translation
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected
Reserve.
to arise from the continued use of asset. Any gain or loss
arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of investment Derivatives and Hedge Accounting
property is determined as the difference between the sales Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value and are
proceeds and the carrying amount of the property and is subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end
recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss. of each reporting period. The resulting gains / losses are
Income received from investment property is recognised recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss immediately
in the Statement of Profit and Loss on a straight-line basis unless the derivative is designated and effective as a
over the term of the lease. hedging instrument, in which case the resulting gain / loss
is recognised as per the hedge accounting principles
Impairment of Assets stated below.
Impairment loss, if any, is provided to the extent, the carrying The Company complies with the principles of hedge
amount of assets or CGU exceeds their recoverable accounting where derivative contracts and / or non-derivative
amount. financial assets / liabilities that are permitted under
Recoverable amount is higher of an asset’s fair value less applicable accounting standards are designated as hedging
costs of disposal and its value in use. Value in use is the instruments. At the inception of the hedge relationship,
present value of estimated future cash flows expected to the Company documents the relationship between the
hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with the
arise from the continuing use of an asset or CGU and from
risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking
its disposal at the end of its useful life.
hedge transaction, which can be a fair value hedge or a
Impairment losses recognised in prior years are reversed
cash flow hedge.
when there is an indication that the impairment losses
(i) Fair value hedges
recognised no longer exist or have decreased. Such
reversals are recognised as an increase in carrying Changes in fair value of the designated portion of
amounts of assets to the extent that it does not exceed the hedging instruments that qualify as fair value hedges
are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss
carrying amounts that would have been determined (net of
immediately, together with any changes in the fair value
amortization or depreciation) had no impairment loss been
of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the
recognised in previous years.
hedged risk. Such fair value changes are recognised in
Inventories the line item relating to the hedged item in the Statement
Inventories are stated at lower of cost and net realisable of Profit and Loss.
value. The cost is calculated on weighted average method. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in the normal course instrument is derecognised, expires or is sold,
of business in bringing such inventories to their present terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies
location and condition and includes, where applicable, for hedge accounting. The fair value adjustment to the
appropriate overheads based on normal level of activity. carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less hedged risk is included in the Statement of Profit and
estimated costs for completion and sale. Loss from that date.
Obsolete, slow moving and defective inventories are (ii) Cash flow hedges
identified from time to time and, where necessary, a The effective portion of changes in the fair value
provision is made for such inventories. of hedging instruments that are designated and
qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in the
Foreign Currency Transactions
other comprehensive income and accumulated as
The functional and presentation currency of the Company ‘Cash Flow Hedge Reserve’. The gains / losses relating
is Indian Rupee. to the ineffective portion are recognised immediately in
Transactions in foreign currency are accounted for at the Statement of Profit and Loss.
the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. Amounts previously recognised and accumulated
Gains / losses arising on settlement, as also on translation in other comprehensive income are reclassified to
146 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025