[COMPANY] ITC
[YEAR] 2025
[PAGES] 140-142

[PAGE 140]
Report of the Board of Directors
Annexure to the
For the Financial Year Ended 31st March, 2025
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) ACTIVITIES OF THE COMPANY
1. CSR Policy - Brief outline and Overview
a. Brief outline of the CSR Policy:
It is ITC’s Policy to direct its CSR Programmes, inter alia, towards achieving one or more of the following – poverty
alleviation; promoting education and skill development; promoting healthcare including preventive healthcare;
providing sanitation and drinking water; ensuring environmental sustainability; enabling climate resilience; undertaking
rural development projects; creating livelihoods for people, especially those from disadvantaged sections of society;
protecting national heritage, art and culture; preserving and promoting music and sports; and providing relief and
assistance to victims of disasters and calamities.
In pursuit of the above, ITC has identified the following focus areas for its CSR Programmes based on comprehensive
need assessment surveys of its stakeholders:
(i) Create sustainable livelihoods and alleviate poverty through water stewardship and management of other
natural resources, sustainable agriculture and climate smart practices, on-farm livelihoods like afforestation,
off-farm livelihoods like livestock development, nano / micro-enterprises and women empowerment;
(ii) Build capabilities for tomorrow through interventions in education, skilling and healthy habitations through
sanitation, school WASH (Water, Sanitation & Hygiene) and waste management;
(iii) Promote healthcare, including preventive healthcare, and improve critical nutritional & health status of at-risk
population through interventions to strengthen mother & child health, nutrition, and affordable access to basic
healthcare services;
(iv) Protect national heritage, art & culture, and preserve & promote music and sports; and
(v) Provide relief and assistance to victims of disasters and calamities.
The CSR Policy of the Company may be accessed on its corporate website at https://www.itcportal.com/about-
itc/policies/corporate-social-responsibility-policy.aspx
b. Role of the CSR and Sustainability Committee:
The role of the CSR and Sustainability Committee is inter alia, to review, monitor and provide strategic direction to
the Company’s CSR and sustainability practices towards fulfilling its “triple bottom line” objectives. The Committee
seeks to guide the Company in crafting unique models to support creation of sustainable livelihoods together
with environmental re-generation. Formulation and monitoring of the CSR Policy, the Sustainability Policies and
the annual CSR Action Plan, including making recommendations to the Board as necessary, form part of the role of
the Committee.
c. CSR Programmes / Projects:
The two most important stakeholders for ITC’s CSR programmes / projects are:
Rural communities, primarily in the Company’s Agri Business areas.
Communities residing in close proximity to the Company’s production units.
The Company’s stakeholder profile is varied, calling for an integrated approach to development comprising several
layers of interventions which are summarised below, in line with Schedule VII to the Companies Act, 2013:
i. Promoting Preventive Healthcare, Sanitation & Poverty Alleviation (Schedule VII – i):
Health and Nutrition: Focus on preventive aspects through emphasis on Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition
(MCHN) through awareness and counselling by leveraging institutions like Anganwadis, Accredited Social
Health Activist (ASHA) workers and network of women Village Health Champions (VHCs). Also, strengthen
healthcare related services by supplementing primary & secondary infrastructure, upgrading Primary Health
Centres (PHC), and providing access to healthcare through mobile services & other interventions.
Waste Management and Circular Economy: Create a clean and healthy environment through awareness
& behaviour change for inculcating individual & community responsibility, facilitate source segregation
& recycling of dry and wet waste including plastics, management of liquid waste and enable sustainable
livelihoods and well-being of rag pickers & waste collectors.
122 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025

[PAGE 141]
Sanitation: Promote a hygienic environment through prevention of open defecation and reduce incidence of
waterborne diseases. The focus of the intervention is on enhancing awareness and impacting behaviour
change on Water, Sanitation & Hygiene (WASH). Also, facilitate health impacting social and civic infrastructure
initiatives like improved sanitation and hygiene in the neighbourhood of the Company’s catchments.
Poverty Alleviation: Support the needy and poor through interventions that enable income diversification &
generation and also provide access to basic needs like clothing, food, etc., as needed.
ii. Promoting Education, Vocational Skills and Livelihood Enhancement (Schedule VII – ii):
Education: Provide children with access to education including Early Child Care Education with focus on
enrolment, learning retention, foundational skills and improved pedagogy. Also, work with government to
enhance capacities of institutions like Anganwadis.
Skills: Build and upgrade skills of youth with the emerging needs of the job market across sectors as also
entrepreneurial opportunities.
On-farm and Off-farm livelihoods: Enhance incomes of farmers and their families by widening income
generation opportunities through social and agro-forestry, fruit plantations and livestock development covering
both large and small ruminants, including poultry and fisheries. Also, facilitate capability building through
comprehensive package of extension services.
iii. Economic Empowerment of Women (Schedule VII – iii):
Provide a range of gainful employment and individual & group entrepreneurial opportunities to women by
empowerment and capacity building programmes, strengthening digital and financial literacy, and also providing
access to loans, grants, insurance & social security.
iv. Ensuring Environmental Sustainability (Schedule VII – iv):
Water Stewardship: Promote local management of water resources by facilitating community-based
participation in planning & executing watershed projects and soil & moisture conservation, river-basin level
interventions, and also identifying & enabling extensive use of water efficient practices in agriculture & urban
catchments and use of treated water.
Biodiversity: Strengthen eco-system services provided by nature including provisioning and regulatory
services focussed on restoring commons and mangroves.
CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development: Enable other businesses / organisations in India
to create enduring value on a sustainable basis by embedding the imperatives of sustainable development in
their strategies & processes.
v. Protection of National Heritage, Art & Culture (Schedule VII – v):
Revive and restore vanishing musical sub-genres by enlisting the goodwill of some of the finest musicians
through institutions like the ITC Sangeet Research Academy (ITC SRA), which was established in 1977 as an
embodiment of the Company’s sustained commitment to a priceless national heritage.
vi. Training to promote rural sports, nationally recognised sports, paralympic sports and Olympic sports
(Schedule VII – vii):
Promote sports for the holistic development of children by working closely with schools.
vii. Research in science, technology, engineering and medicine aimed at promoting Sustainable Development Goals
(Schedule VII – ix-b):
Leverage the technical expertise of premier institutions through partnerships and support innovation and R&D
activities in the areas of science, technology, engineering, environment, agriculture and health aimed at promoting
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
viii. Rural Development (Schedule VII – x):
Sustainable and Climate Smart Agriculture: Introduce advanced knowledge & technologies through package
of practices, increase awareness of farmers on optimum use of natural resources in order to increase farm
incomes, minimise cost of cultivation, reduce emissions and make agriculture resilient to increasing climate
challenges.
Knowledge Empowerment: Enable farmers and farmer collectives to make informed choices by providing
relevant and real-time information on local weather reports, customised knowledge & best practices on
farming and farm management, commodity prices, market linkages and risk management.
ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025 123

[PAGE 142]
Institutional Support: Encourage sustainable agricultural practices through various extension platforms to
enable access to relevant farm mechanisation technologies & implements, as also institutional support
mechanisms and linkages to government schemes, especially for small farm holdings, in order to enhance
farm productivity and farm-based incomes.
ix. Disaster Assistance (Schedule VII – xii):
Provide relief especially to the poor and vulnerable sections of society who face severe disruption to their
livelihoods in the event of disasters and calamities.
2. Composition of the CSR and Sustainability Committee as on 31st March, 2025:
Sl. Name of Director Designation / Nature of Number of Number of
No. Directorship meetings of CSR meetings of CSR
and Sustainability and Sustainability
Committee held Committee attended
during the year during the year
1. S. Puri (Chairman of the Chairman & Managing Director 3
Committee)
2. C. K. Mishra 1 Independent Director N.A.
3. S. Mohanty 2 Non-Executive Director N.A.
4. S. Mukherjee 1 Independent Director 3 N.A.
5. A. Pande 3 Non-Executive Director 1
6. S. Panray Non-Executive Director 3
7. N. Rao Independent Director 1
8. A. Singh 4 Non-Executive Director 3
1 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 27th October, 2024.
2 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 1st January, 2025.
3 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 27th July, 2024.
4 Appointed as Member w.e.f. 2nd April, 2024.
3. Provide the web-link(s) where composition of the CSR and Sustainability Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects
approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Company: https://www.itcportal.com/sustainability/corporate-
social-responsibility.aspx
4. Provide the executive summary along with web-link(s) of Impact Assessment of CSR Projects carried out in pursuance of
sub-rule (3) of Rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable:
Executive Summary – Impact Assessment of ITC’s CSR Programmes for the financial year 2024-25
Brief Description ITC implements its CSR Programmes across the country under a Two Horizon approach
aimed at holistic development of communities.
Thematic Areas / The specific themes covered under the Two Horizon approach include:
Programmes Horizon – I: Creating Sustainable livelihoods for today
Water Stewardship
Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA)
On-Farm Livelihood Diversification: Social Forestry
Off-Farm Livelihood Diversification: Livestock Development
Horizon – II: Creating Capabilities for Tomorrow
Support to Education
Skilling of Youth
Public Health: Sanitation and Waste Management
Public Health: Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition (MCHN)
Women Empowerment: Targeted Hardcore Poor (THP) Programme and Financial
Literacy Programme
124 ITC Limited REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2025